Forgive the mistakes, I had 15 minutes to write this. See also Annex.
Would you note that if I commit suicide today 89-12-06 it is not for economic reasons (for I have waited until I exhausted all my financial means, even refusing jobs) but for political reasons. Because I have decided to send the feminists, who have always ruined my life, to their Maker. For seven years life has brought me no joy and being totally blasé, I have decided to put an end to those viragos.
I tried in my youth to enter the Forces as an officer cadet, which would have allowed me pos- sibly to get into the arsenal and precede Lortie1 in a raid. They refused me because antisocial [sic]. I therefore had to wait until this day to execute my plans. In between, I continued my studies in a haphazard way for they never really interested me, knowing in advance my fate. Which did not prevent me from obtaining very good marks despite my theory of not handing in work and the lack of studying before exams.
Even if the Mad Killer epithet will be attributed to me by the media, I consider myself a rational erudite that only the arrival of the Grim Reaper has forced to take extreme acts. For why persevere to exist if it is only to please the government. Being rather backward-looking by nature (except for science), the feminists have always enraged me. They want to keep the advantages of women (e.g. cheaper insurance, extended maternity leave preceded by a preventative leave, etc.) while seizing for themselves those of men.
Thus it is an obvious truth that if the Olympic Games removed the Men-Women distinc- tion, there would be Women only in the graceful events. So the feminists are not fighting to remove that barrier. They are so opportunistic they [do not]2 neglect to profit from the knowledge accumulated by men through the ages. They always try to misrepresent them every time they can. Thus, the other day, I heard they were honoring the Canadian men and women who fought at the frontline during the world wars. How can you explain [that since]3 women were not authorized to go to the frontline??? Will we hear of Caesar’s female legions and female galley slaves who of course took up 50% of the ranks of history, though they never existed. A real Casus Belli.4
Sorry for this too brief letter.
Marc Lépine
Annex [list of 19 names and telephone numbers of women Lepine identified as feminists]
Nearly died today. The lack of time (because I started too late) has allowed these radical feminists to survive.
Alea Jacta Est5
1 Denis Lortie committed a rampage attack in the Canadian Parliament in 1984.
2 Original French is “Elles sont tellement opportunistes qu’elles ne négligent pas de profiter.” A ne-
gative is missing from the published translation.
3 Original French is “Comment expliquer cela alors que les femmes . . .” The inaccurate published translation was “. . . explain then that . . .”
4 Latin phrase meaning a justification for war.
5 Latin: “The die has been cast.”
