STATEMENT
by Mr. Lu Gang, Ph.D.
My this life is surprisingly full of political incidents. When I was in the kindergarten, I was punished by the baby sitter for calling Mr. Lenin, the grand dad of Soviet Communism, “Bold Donkey” which is a popular insulting slung for bold people. In the last year of my junior high I was assigned to visit the memorial tomb of Chairman Mao. I showed some reluctance to the class supervisor because it was right the time for final exams. Then my public duties (vice head of the class, representative for English, Physics) were deprived. I was forced to make a self-criticism speech in from of the whole class, and all my school friends left me in the fear of political suppression. I hate politics, but I will certainly go ahead to use politics if it is my only choice to defend myself.
My favorite public place in Iowa City is the “Sports Column” where I have been around for about five years. I made lots of good friends and inevitably some jealous enemies there. They have the prettiest girls in town there, and some of them could never have been forgotten such as . . . and the little blonde cutie who always stays by her side. Of course there are some girls I run into in other places, such as . . . who is the sweetest girl I’ve ever met in this life.
My first movie seen in the US is “About Last Night” the evening I passed my comprehensive exams. My favorite movies include “No Way Out,” “Die Hard,” “Indiana Jones,” and Clint Eastwood’s movies where a single cowboy fights against a group of incorporated bad guys who pick on little guys at their will or cover up each other’s ass. I believe in the rights of people to own firearms. Historically, gun-rights make it possible for the spread of civil rights into the south. In those times, groups of civil rights workers from the north were assassinated/ murdered by pro-slaver southerners, meanwhile the local/federal authorities were reluctant to do anything about it. So the civil rights workers have to be heavily armed before they ever dare to enter the south. Even today, privately-owned guns are the only practical way for individuals/minority to protect them against the oppression from the evil organizations/ majority who actually control the government and legal system. Private guns make every person equal, no matter what/who he/she is. They also make it possible for a individual to fight against a conspired/incorporated organization such as Mafia or Dirty University of- ficials. Usually an ordinary individual is too weak, both politically and financially, to oppose a giant organization. Fortunate examples like Dr. Jean Dew winning a federal case against the University of Iowa for sexual discrimination is really rare. Her success is mainly because she has a solid income (salary for a M.D. could not be bad at all) to support her five year court battle against the university of Iowa which simply neglected her complaint in the first place and issued only a public apology to her after the court’s ruling in her favor. The University of Iowa even paid the fine of the primary criminal in the case (a fellow male anatomy profes- sor), which is really outrageous. This actually indicates that this university is encouraging the male anatomy professor for his illegal behavior. It is believed that there exists no justice for little people in this world, extraordinary action has to be taken to preserve this world as a better place to live.

Christoph K. Goertz . . . He told me one day “you are in charge of the code and no one else knows the code” . . . since we are the only group to own the 2-D code right now. But as a honest human being and based upon the findings in the execution of the code, I arrived at some conclusions different from his original expectation. As a result, he became so mad that he refused to let me graduate in time for a precious job opportunity and is withholding my thesis result from being published in JGR where he serves as the chief-editor. When he couldn’t find any more excuses to prevent me from graduation, he failed intentionally to notify me as it should be that I am supposed by tradition to give a 10-15 minutes talk on my thesis defense before the committee members ask me questions. In fact he told me of it until one minute before my defense started. I was taken by surprise and I had to make up a talk instantly and presented it on blackboard instead of on transparency projector. As the result, my thesis was not passed by the committee after my defense and I was exposed brutally to both personal humiliation and emotional anguish . . . Goertz . . . blamed me personally for the failure of my defense . . . I did not ask him to write letters of recommendation for job opportunities. Later when he heard of this from Dr. Nicholson, he came to me immediately and insist that he write such letters for me. Goertz. . .missed the deadlines for most of the letters which I had specifically specified. That is the major reason that I am still jobless today. Then he promised in May that he would support my work here, however, I haven’t seen any paycheck since then while I have been working here for months after my graduation in May. Later I made some recent progress in extension of my thesis research and submit it to JGR. The response from the referees is favorably for publication after some minor modifications. Goertz first tried to persuade me to present it to JGR by saying that it is too lengthy to be published in GRL. When I pointed out that it is within the limit for GRL, he then tried to force me to add more material to it so it will be delayed for publication after his opinion is published or it be forced to be submitted to JGR under his control . . .
Robert Smith . . . Since he is new in the department, he is eager to build his own territory . . . He heard that Shan Linhua is a good student, he then convinced Goertz to have him gradu- ated sooner than most of the others which of course caused wide-spread outrage among the rest of the students. Shan, however, missed the deadline for graduation paperwork, then Smith went to Dwight R. Nicholson, Chairman of the department for personal favor which enables Shan to graduate despite the missing of the graduate college deadline. Trying to justify his act, Smith criticizes me with his eyes closed from the facts that my way of studying the cross-field charge-separation electric field is completely wrong. At that time, everyone in the group was criticizing my study for a whole semester until I am eventually proven correct.
Dwight R. Nicholson . . . gave his student . . . an extinguished graduate fellowship even he is not qualified according the graduate college requirement. Nicholson also gave . . . an engineering undergraduate without even a Bachelor degree a 1/2 time graduate research assistantship in physics. What a outrage! He committed fraud (unethical conduct) in the departmental nomination to the “D.C. Spriesterbach Dissertation Award” offered by the graduate college here which was filed by me in a series of complaints to Dr. Rudolph Schultz, Acting Dean of the Graduate College; Dr. Leslie Sims, Dean of the Graduate College; Peter Nathan, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Anne Cleary, Associated Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Hunter Rawlings III, President since June 1991. The response from various uni- versity officials is, however, disappointed. Up to now, my complaints are still under primary investigation by university officials. I believe they are just trying to coordinates their words to cover this up. Immediately after Dr. Dwight Nicholson nominated Dr. Goertz for some kind of teach/research award from the university and Dr. Cleary called Dr. Goertz, Dr. Goertz came to me saying “if you continue, it will backfire.” What a down-right attempt to cover-up. The whole scene looks pretty like the famous story of “The Count of Monte Cristo” by Alex Dumas. Since then I have sworn to myself that I would revenge at any cost, sooner or later.
www.schoolshooters.info Peter Langman, Ph.D. Version 1.0 (29 July 2014) 2

The misconducts of the said persons would be impossible without the indulgence/coverup by the university authorities. I have been revealing their unethical conducts to Dr. Rudolph Schultz, associate dean of Graduate College; Dr. Leslie Sims, dean of graduate college; Dr. Peter Nathan, Vice President for Academic Affairs; Dr. Hunter Rawlings III, President of the University of Iowa since June 1991. However, they would rather to believe the words of Nicholson than to listen to my words and my evidence. The department/college/university authorities have been in a conspiracy to isolate me, delay my complaint so I might be forced to leave here and they could claim the case dismissed because the absence of the plaintiff. I regret that I have to take extraordinary measure to resolve this matter, but it is simply not my fault. The University of Iowa authorities should be blamed for the unfortunate outcome. If the university had taken positive steps as it is supposed by the tax-payers, tuition payers and funding agencies, all this could be avoided. The University of Iowa is trying its best to cover . . . Nicholson in the DCS dissertation award, in spite of the fact that I am putting my whole career on the line.
I am being a physicist who believed in the conservation of matter, energy, momentum, etc. Although my flesh/blood-made body seems dead, my spiritual soul remains perpetual and I am being quantum leaping to another corner of our world. I have finished what I am sup- posed to do here which is to make right what was once wrong. I am proud of my achievement here and I am more confident in my upcoming journey. So long my friends, maybe we will meet again in another time at another place. May the lord bless all those descent human beings who are honest, hard working and truthy.
