"1-FoxNews The Life & Crimes Of The Unabomber: Ted Kaczynski Dead At 81 Jun 15, 2023 On Saturday, June 10th, 2023 Unabomber Ted Kaczynski was found dead in his federal prison cell at age 81. A mathematics prodigy, Kaczynski received a Harvard education and worked as a professor at UC Berkeley before isolating himself from society. In a remote cabin in Montana, Kaczynski created a number of bombs targeting people who he believed were responsible for the industrialization of society and the advancement of technology. Retired FBI Profiler Dr. Mary Ellen O’Toole shares her reaction to Kaczynski’s death and discusses her involvement in the Unabomber case. Later, she explains how the FBI looks out for warning signs exhibited by Kaczynski while investigating today’s criminals as well. During her time with the FBI, Dr. O’Toole investigated various high-profile criminals and cases, including the Zodiac Killer, the Toy Box Killer, and the bombing at the 2002 Olympic games. Dr. O’Toole was one of the most senior profilers with the FBI and was recognized for her expertise in “psychopathy.” In her book, Dangerous Instincts, she details how readers can understand human behavior to keep themselves safe from harm. "
"2-FoxNews  Former Classmates Say Virginia Tech Killer Was Picked on in High School Associated PressBLACKSBURG, Va. – Long before he boiled over, Virginia Tech gunman Cho Seung-Hui was picked on, pushed around and laughed at over his shyness and the strange way he talked when he was a schoolboy in suburban Washington, former classmates say. Chris Davids, a Virginia Tech senior who graduated from Westfield High School in Chantilly, Va., with Cho in 2003, recalled that the South Korean immigrant almost never opened his mouth and would ignore attempts to strike up a conversation. Once, in English class, the teacher had the students read aloud, and when it was Cho's turn, he just looked down in silence, Davids recalled. Finally, after the teacher threatened him with an F for participation, Cho started to read in a strange, deep voice that sounded "like he had something in his mouth," Davids said. "As soon as he started reading, the whole class started laughing and pointing and saying, 'Go back to China,"' Davids said. • Uncle: Virginia Tech Shooter Was 'Worry to His Family' • Students, Others React to Killer's Video Confession Cho shot 32 people to death and committed suicide Monday in the deadliest one-man shooting rampage in modern U.S. history. The high school classmates' accounts add to the psychological portrait that is beginning to take shape, and could shed light on the video rant Cho mailed to NBC in the middle of his rampage at Virginia Tech. In the often-incoherent video, the 23-year-old Cho portrays himself as persecuted and rants about rich kids. "Your Mercedes wasn't enough, you brats," says Cho, who came to the U.S. at about age 8 in 1992 and whose parents work at a dry cleaners in suburban Washington. "Your golden necklaces weren't enough, you snobs. Your trust funds wasn't enough. Your vodka and cognac wasn't enough. All your debaucheries weren't enough. Those weren't enough to fulfill your hedonistic needs. You had everything." Among the victims of the massacre were two other Westfield High graduates: Reema Samaha and Erin Peterson. Both young women graduated from the high school last year. Police said it is not clear whether Cho singled them out. Stephanie Roberts, 22, a fellow member of Cho's graduating class at Westfield High, said she never witnessed anyone picking on Cho in high school. "I just remember he was a shy kid who didn't really want to talk to anybody," she said. "I guess a lot of people felt like maybe there was a language barrier." But she said friends of hers who went to middle school with Cho told her they recalled him getting picked on there. "There were just some people who were really mean to him and they would push him down and laugh at him," Roberts said Wednesday. "He didn't speak English really well and they would really make fun of him." Virginia Tech student Alison Heck said a suitemate of hers on campus — Christina Lilick — found a mysterious question mark scrawled on the dry erase board on her door. Lilick went to the same high school as Cho, according to Lilick's Facebook page. Cho once scrawled a question mark on the sign-in sheet on the first day of a literature class, and other students came to know him as "the question mark kid." "I don't know if she knew that it was him for sure," Heck said. "I do remember that that fall that she was being stalked and she had mentioned the question mark. And there was a question mark on her door." Heck added: "She just let us know about it just in case there was a strange person walking around our suite." Lilick could not immediately be located for comment, via e-mail or telephone. Regan Wilder, 21, who attended Virginia Tech, high school and middle school with Cho, said she was in several classes with Cho in high school, including advanced-placement calculus and Spanish. She said he walked around with his head down, and almost never spoke. And when he did, it was "a real low mutter, like a whisper." As part of an exam in Spanish class, students had to answer questions in Spanish on tape, and other students were so curious to know what Cho sounded like that they waited eagerly for the teacher to play his recording, she said. She said that on the tape, he did not speak confidently but did seem to know Spanish. Wilder recalled high school teachers trying to get him to participate, but "he would only shrug his shoulders or he'd give like two-word responses, and I think it just got to the point where teachers just gave up because they realized he wasn't going to come out of the shell he was in, so they just kind of passed him over for the most part as time went on." She said she was sure Cho probably was picked on in middle school, but so was everyone else. And it didn't seem as if English was the problem for him, she said. If he didn't speak English well, there were several other Korean students he could have reached out to for friendship, but he didn't, she said. Wilder said Cho wasn't any friendlier in college, where "he always had that same damn blank stare, like glare, on his face. And I'd always try to make eye contact with him because I recognized the kid because I'd seen him for six years, but he'd always just look right past you like you weren't there." In other developments, Gov. Timothy Kaine is appointing a five- to seven-member panel to investigate the shootings, the governor's office said. The panel will review Cho's mental health history and how police responded to the tragedy. The panel will submit a report in two to three months. University officials also announced that all of Cho's student victims would be awarded degrees posthumously, and that other students terrorized by the shootings might be allowed to end the semester immediately without consequences. Eleven people hurt in the attack remained hospitalized, at least one in serious condition. Authorities on Wednesday disclosed that more than a year before the massacre, Cho had been accused of sending unwanted messages to two women and was taken to a psychiatric hospital on a magistrate's orders and was pronounced a danger to himself. But he was released with orders to undergo outpatient treatment. Also, Cho's twisted, violence-filled writings and menacing, uncommunicative demeanor had disturbed professors and students so much that he was removed from one English class and was repeatedly urged to get counseling. On Wednesday, NBC received a package containing a rambling and often incoherent 23-page written statement from Cho, 28 video clips and 43 photos — many of them showing Cho, in a military-style vest and backward baseball cap, brandishing handguns. A Postal Service time stamp reads 9:01 a.m. — between the two attacks on campus. The package helps explain one mystery: where the gunman was and what he did during that two-hour window between the first burst of gunfire, at a high-rise dorm, and the second attack, at a classroom building. "You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided today," a snarling Cho says on video. "But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have blood on your hands that will never wash off." Col. Steve Flaherty, superintendent of the Virginia State Police, said Thursday that the material contained little they did not already know. Flaherty said he was disappointed that NBC decided to broadcast parts of it. "I just hate that a lot of people not used to seeing that type of image had to see it," he said. "I saw his picture on TV, and when I did I just got chills," said Kristy Venning, a junior from Franklin County, Va. "There's really no words. It shows he put so much thought into this and I think it's sick." With a backlash developing against the media for airing the images, FOX News said it would stop running them, and other networks said they would severely limit their use. "It has value as breaking news," said ABC News spokesman Jeffrey Schneider, "but then becomes practically pornographic as it is just repeated ad nauseam.""
"3-FoxNews  Fugitive ex-cop Christopher Dorner died from gunshot to head, sheriff says  Adam Housley reports from Big Bear Lake, Calif. Fugitive ex-cop Christopher Dorner apparently killed himself as the cabin he was barricaded in caught fire following a shootout with officers, police revealed Friday while also confirming he spent most of his time on the run in a condominium just steps away from the command center set up to find him. "The information that we have right now seems to indicate that the wound that took Christopher Dorner's life was self-inflicted," sheriff's Cpt. Kevin Lacy told reporters at a news conference. Authorities initially were unsure whether Dorner killed himself, had been struck by a deputy's bullet or had died in a fire that engulfed the cabin during the shootout, which included police sending tear gas canisters inside. The search for Dorner began last week after authorities said he had launched a deadly revenge campaign against the Los Angeles Police Department for his firing, warning in a manifesto posted on Facebook that he would bring "warfare" to LAPD officers and their families. Within days he apparently killed four people, including two police officers. He killed the daughter of a former Los Angeles Police Department captain and her fiance Feb. 3 and later a Riverside police officer he ambushed at a traffic light. He then disappeared into the San Bernardino National Forest four days later, leaving his burned-out truck with a broken axle near the mountain resort of Big Bear Lake. His fourth victim was a sheriff's deputy killed in Tuesday's shootout. Until then, Dorner had managed to elude one of the largest manhunts in California history, one that employed heat-seeking helicopters and bloodhounds. Sheriff John McMahon said Friday that authorities now believe Dorner was hiding all that time in a condo within 100 yards of a command post they had set up for the manhunt. Karen and Jim Reynolds found Dorner inside their vacant cabin-style condo Tuesday when they entered to clean it. The couple had left the door unlocked Thursday for a maintenance man, McMahon said, and that's apparently how Dorner got in, locking the door behind him. When authorities stopped at the condo during their door-to-door search of the Big Bear Lake area that Thursday night, the door was locked and no one answered, McMahon said. "Our deputy knocked on that door and did not get an answer, and in hindsight it's probably a good thing that he did not answer based on his actions before and after that event," the sheriff said of Dorner. When the couple arrived Tuesday, Jim Reynolds said Dorner confronted them with a drawn gun, "jumped out and hollered `stay calm."' Dorner bound their arms and legs with plastic ties, gagged them with towels and covered their heads with pillowcases and fled in their purple Nissan, but Karen Reynolds soon got free and called 911. "I really thought it could be the end," she said afterward. Law enforcement officers, who had gathered outside the cabin for daily for briefings, were stunned that Donner was watching from just across the street. One official later looking on Google Earth exclaimed that he'd parked right across the street from the Reynoldses' condo each day. Timothy Clemente, a retired FBI SWAT team leader who was part of the search for Atlanta Olympics bomber Eric Rudolph, said searchers had to work methodically. When there's a hot pursuit, they can run after a suspect into a building. But in a manhunt, the search has to slow down and police have to have a reason to enter a building. "You can't just kick in every door," he said."
"4-Toronto Sun  TOWHEY: 30 years after Ecole Polytechnique, gun control has failed  Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau lay white roses in front of a photo showing the 14 women who were killed during a vigil on top of Mount Royal marking the thirtieth anniversary of the mass shooting at Ecole Polytechnique, Dec. 6, 2019. (REUTERS/Christinne Muschi) Thirty years ago Friday, Marc Lepine used a rifle to massacre 14 women at Ecole Polytechnique in Montreal. Another 10 women were wounded. Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. It was an egregious act of terror aimed directly at women. Specifically, feminists. We know this, because the terrorist himself said so in a suicide note he left behind. Lepine was, perhaps, Canada’s first Incel terrorist. It was also a watershed moment where feminism and pacifism converged and fuelled a new gun control movement driven by the passions of aggrieved and the political savvy of the feminist movement. It became a powerful political lobby that has driven change in Canada’s gun laws ever since. Some of those changes have probably been for the good. Most of those changes have been pointless. Some of them have been harmful. We may argue about which was which, but we must all recognize one fact. None of the gun control measures enacted since Lepine’s 1989 massacre have reduced gun violence in Canada. Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. In 1989, the Justice Department reported 218 firearm homicides in Canada – based on police reports which, it notes, tend to over-report homicides. That’s about 0.8 gun murders per 100,000 Canadians. In 2016, Statistics Canada reported a rate of 0.72 gun murders per 100,000 Canadians – based on vital statistics, which tend to classify fewer deaths as homicides than do police. In other words, after 30 years of increased gun control, the gun-murder rate is effectively unchanged. Lepine used a Ruger Mini-14 rifle he bought legally at a sporting goods store. It was semi-automatic rifle, meaning once it was loaded and “cocked,” it would fire one bullet with each pull of the trigger – until the magazine that holds the bullets was empty. It used a magazine that held up to 30 bullets – so he could fire 30 shots before reloading. Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. The Mini-14 was a civilianized sport rifle based on the M-14 rifle used by the U.S. Army early in the Vietnam War. It was a very popular rifle with hunters, rural and indigenous Canadians. Popular, because it was affordable, easy to shoot, easy to clean and maintain, very sturdy and extremely reliable. It still is. You see, 30 years after the Montreal massacre, the rifle Lepine used remains available for purchase in most Canadian gun stores. Similar rifles have been used in a number of Canadian murders, including the 2014 shooting of five Mounties in Moncton. On the other hand, rifles based on the popular and affordable ArmaLite Rifle 15 mechanism (AR-15) have never been used in a mass shooting in Canada. Yet, there are increasing calls to ban them outright. Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below. Why ban one and not the other? No one knows. It’s not about reason. It’s about emotion. AR-15’s tend to be black and scary-looking. Most M-14 variants have wooden stocks and look like hunting rifles. Maybe that’s part of it. Both are equally lethal. Canada’s gun laws have always been based on emotion. It’s impossible to argue with emotion. For someone who’s lost a friend or loved one to gun violence, visceral emotion shapes their view of the world. They deserve sympathy. But, their emotion doesn’t make them experts. And it doesn’t mean they’re right. The federal government has capitulated many times to the emotional demands of gun-control advocates. But those capitulations have never reduced gun violence. Not once. Now, on the 30th Anniversary of the massacre at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique, there will be enormous emotional pressure on the Trudeau government to go further. To do something. About guns. But, if Trudeau acts – as he has so far proposed to act – based entirely on emotion, rather than on fact and reason, then his newest gun control measures will be as ineffective as Canada’s past gun control efforts. And criminals will continue to murder Canadians in the streets."
"5-Fox News  List of Deadliest Campus Shootings in United States Associated PressJanuary 13, 2015 2:10pm EST Fatal shootings at U.S. colleges or universities in recent years: —April 16, 2007: A gunman kills 32 people in a dorm and a classroom at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va. The gunman later dies. —Aug. 1, 1966: Charles Whitman points a rifle from the observation deck of the University of Texas at Austin's Tower and begins shooting in a homicidal rampage that goes on for 96 minutes. Sixteen people are killed, 31 wounded. —Nov. 1, 1991: Gang Lu, 28, a graduate student in physics from China, reportedly upset because he was passed over for an academic honor, opens fire in two buildings on the University of Iowa campus. Five University of Iowa employees killed, including four members of the physics department, two other people are wounded. The student fatally shoots himself. —May 4, 1970: Four students were killed and nine wounded by National Guard troops called in to quell anti-war protests on the campus of Kent State University in Ohio. —Oct. 28, 2002: Failing University of Arizona Nursing College student and Gulf War veteran Robert Flores, 40, walks into an instructor's office and fatally shoots her. A few minutes later, armed with five guns, he enters one of his nursing classrooms and kills two more of his instructors before fatally shooting himself. —Sept. 2, 2006: Douglas W. Pennington, 49, kills himself and his two sons, Logan P. Pennington, 26, and Benjamin M. Pennington, 24, during a visit to the campus of Shepherd University in Shepherdstown, W.Va. —Jan. 16, 2002: Graduate student Peter Odighizuwa, 42, recently dismissed from Virginia's Appalachian School of Law, returns to campus and kills the dean, a professor and a student before being tackled by students. The attack also wounds three female students. —Aug. 15, 1996: Frederick Martin Davidson, 36, a graduate engineering student at San Diego State, is defending his thesis before a faculty committee when he pulls out a handgun and kills three professors. —Aug. 28, 2000: James Easton Kelly, 36, a University of Arkansas graduate student recently dropped from a doctoral program after a decade of study and John Locke, 67, the English professor overseeing his coursework, are shot to death in an apparent murder-suicide."
"6-Fox News  Ohio teen indicted in 3 school shooting deaths Associated PressCLEVELAND – A 17-year-old boy has been charged with three counts of aggravated murder in the school shooting deaths of three students and the wounding of three others, according to an indictment released Tuesday. The indictment was returned by a Geauga County grand jury against T.J. Lane in the Feb. 27 attack at Chardon High School east of Cleveland. A judge ruled last month that Lane must be tried as an adult. Lane could face life in prison if convicted. He was indicted on three counts of aggravated murder, two counts of attempted aggravated murder and one count of felonious assault. No motive has been established. One of Lane's attorneys, Mark DeVan, said there would be no comment. Lane's arraignment was scheduled for Friday in Chardon. Killed in the attacks were Demetrius Hewlin, 16, Russell King Jr., 17, and Daniel Parmertor, 16. Minors aren't eligible for the death penalty in Ohio. Had his case been routed to juvenile court, the maximum possible penalty would have kept him jailed until he turned 21. The judge who sent the case to adult felony court rejected a defense request to release Lane on a $500,000 bond and said Lane would pose a risk to flee and a safety risk to the community. A psychiatrist who examined Lane testified earlier that that Lane sometimes loses touch with reality and suffers from hallucinations, psychosis and fantasies. But Dr. Phillip Resnick said none of the symptoms detailed in a mental evaluation would prevent Lane from understanding the case against him and helping in his defense. Under a new state law, a child can be found competent only if he or she is able to grasp the seriousness of the charges and understand the proceedings. Resnick said Lane also has experienced migraine headaches, a narrow range of emotions and withdrawing from people. Lane attended an alternative school for students who haven't done well in traditional schools; he had been at Chardon waiting for a bus. Prosecutor David Joyce said Lane has admitted taking a .22-caliber pistol and a knife to the high school and firing 10 shots at a group of students sitting at a cafeteria table at the start of the school day."
"7-Breitbart  Report: Chris Harper Mercer Sought ‘Limelight’ He Saw Given to VA Shooter Vester Flanagan AWR Hawkins1 Oct 2015 On Thursday morning, police say 26-year-old Chris Harper Mercer  shot and killed at least nine people on the Umpqua Community College (UCC) campus before officers shot and killed him. A new report claims someone appearing to be Mercer wrote longingly of the attention given to Vester Lee Flanagan after he shot a television reporter and cameraman on air in Virginia. Mercer wounded at least seven people in addition to those he killed on the gun free UCC campus, law enforcement says. According to CBS News, a blog which appears to be Mercer’s “[referenced] multiple shootings,” including the shooting carried out by Flanagan on August 26. Regarding Flanagan, Mercer allegedly wrote: I have noticed that so many people like [Flanagan] are alone and unknown, yet when they spill a little blood, the whole world knows who they are. A man who was known by no one, is now known by everyone. His face splashed across every screen, his name across the lips of every person on the planet, all in the course of one day. Seems like the more people you kill, the more you’re in the limelight. During an evening press conference on the attack, Douglas County Sheriff John Hanlin asked media not to use the gunman’s name–not to give him the celebrity he may have been seeking via the attack. Follow AWR Hawkins on Twitter: @AWRHawkins. Reach him directly at awrhawkins@breitbart.com."
"8-Fox News  Nebraska Vice Principal Dies After Student Shooting Associated PressNovember 30, 2015 9:38am EST Nebraska School Shaken in Wake of Shooting A student opened fire at an Omaha high school on Wednesday, wounding two adults and causing students to rush into a school kitchen to take cover before his body was found in a car about a mile away, authorities said. OMAHA, Neb. -- The son of a police detective opened fire at a Nebraska high school Wednesday, killing the assistant principal and forcing panicked students to take cover in the kitchen of the building just as they returned from holiday break. The gunman, who had attended the school for no more than two months, also wounded the principal before fleeing from the scene and fatally shooting himself in his car about a mile away. Authorities declined to speculate about why the suspect, identified as 17-year-old Robert Butler Jr., targeted the administrators. Vice Principal Vicki Kaspar, 58, died at a hospital hours after the shooting, police said. Principal Curtis Case, 45, was listed in stable condition. Jessica Liberator, a sophomore at Millard South High School, said she was in the cafeteria when another administrator "rushed in to tell everybody to get in the back of the kitchen." She said she started to cry when students heard a knock on the kitchen door and a cafeteria worker yelled for everybody to get down. It was a false alarm. Nobody came in. She huddled with Brittany Brase, another sophomore. Asked whether they were best friends, Brase said, "No, not really." But, she added: "She's my best friend now. These things bring you together." Butler had transferred in November from a high school in Lincoln, about 50 miles southwest of Omaha. In a rambling Facebook post filled with expletives, Butler warned Wednesday that people would hear about the "evil" things he did and said the school drove him to violence. He wrote that the Omaha school was worse than his previous one, and that the new city had changed him. He apologized and said he wanted people to remember him for who he was before affecting "the lives of the families I ruined." The post ended with "goodbye." A former classmate of Butler's from Lincoln confirmed the Facebook post to The Associated Press and provided AP with a copy of it. Conner Gerner said he remembered Butler as being energetic, fun and outgoing. Gerner said Butler sometimes got in trouble for speaking out too much in class, but he did not seem angry. Butler's stepgrandfather, Robert Uribe, said the news still seemed unreal to him Wednesday evening and didn't seem to fit with the polite teen he knew. "I have no idea what led to this," said Uribe, who last saw Butler about a month ago. Uribe said nothing appeared to be wrong at that time. Lincoln school officials declined to provide details about Butler's student record. But Lincoln Southwest High School Principal Rob Slauson said Butler was involved in few, if any, activities before transferring to the new school. "I think it's safe to say that in the yearbook, there was one picture of Robert Butler, and that was his school picture," Slauson said. Police Chief Alex Hayes provided no details on the weapon Butler used or how he obtained it. Butler's father is a detective for the Omaha Police Department. Investigators were interviewing the seven-year veteran Wednesday to learn more about what may have led to the shooting. Authorities first received reports of the shooting around 12:50 p.m. The school was immediately locked down, but within two hours, students were being released in groups. When the first group of students emerged, parents began applauding. Some of the students smiled, raised their hands in the air and flashed a V for victory sign. Crystal Losole, whose son and a nephew are juniors at the school, said she got a call from her son when he was hiding in the kitchen. Hugging him later and weeping, Losole said when she learned of the shooting, "My knees kind of buckled." Her son, Skyler Marion, said he was in the cafeteria when Assistant Principal Brad Millard loudly announced that there was "a code red" and that everybody needed to evacuate. At first, nobody believed Millard, Skyler said. But when Millard's face turned white, students knew it was no joke. John Manna, who lives two blocks from the school, said he knows Kaspar because his older son graduated from high school with her son in 1996. "I was just shocked. I can't think of a nicer person. I can't see how anyone would be cross with her," Manna said. The shooting news jolted the suburban neighborhood in west Omaha where the principal lives. "I'm really sad," said Judy Robison, who lives six houses away from the Case family. "There's been shootings downtown, but we're really pretty insulated out here." The school on the west side of Omaha has about 2,100 students. Click here to read more on this story from omaha.com"
"9-Fox News  Twelve Dead After Gunman Opens Fire at Brazil Elementary School At least 13 people are dead after a gunman opens fire at a Brazilian elementary school in Rio de Janeiro. A gunman roamed the halls of an elementary school in Rio de Janeiro on Thursday and killed 12 children, lining them up against a wall and shooting them in the head at point-blank range as he shouted, "I'm going to kill you all!" It was the worst school shooting in Brazil -- and would have been deadlier if the gunman had not been shot in the legs by a police officer, who said the man then fell down some stairs and shot himself in the head. Images taken with a cell phone and posted on YouTube showed students fleeing wildly, screaming for help, many with their white and blue school shirts soaked in blood. Rio de Janeiro state's Secretariat of Health and Civil Defense said in a statement on its website that at least 12 other students were injured, many by gunfire, and taken to hospitals. At least two were in grave condition. Officials earlier reported 18 injured. The dead included 10 girls and two boys, plus the gunman, according to the Health and Civil Defense department. Those killed were between the ages of 12 and 15. One of the boys died at a hospital about 12 hours after the shooting. "He came in shooting," said Andreia Machado, recounting what her 13-year-old daughter, Thayane, told her before going into surgery. Thayane was hit by three bullets and lost feeling in her legs because one hit her spine, said her mother. Crying as she spoke, Machado wondered if her daughter would ever be able to return to school -- or walk. "She's such an active child," she said. "That's the biggest fear I have, her not being able to walk again. But we have to trust in God." The gunman was identified as 23-year-old Wellington Oliveira, who had once attended the Tasso da Silveira school in a working-class neighborhood in western Rio. No motive was known, but authorities said the shooter left a rambling and mostly incoherent letter at the scene indicating he wanted to kill himself. The letter also explained in detail how Oliveira wanted his corpse to be cared for -- bathed and wrapped in a white sheet that he left in a bag in the first room where he said he would start shooting. The letter also states that the gunman should not be touched by anyone who is "impure" unless they wear gloves. "If possible I want to be buried next to my mother. A follower of God must visit my grave at least once. He must pray before my grave and ask God to forgive me for what I have done," read the letter, portions of which were posted on the Globo television network's website.Edmar Peixoto, the deputy mayor of western Rio, said the letter also stated the gunman was infected with the AIDS virus. The public school was in the midst of celebrating its 40th anniversary, and students' handmade posters commemorating the day could be seen through school windows.Rio Police Chief Martha Rocha said that when Oliveira first entered the school he told staff members he was there to give a lecture. Shortly afterward, he opened fire. Rocha said he was carrying two pistols and an ammunition belt. He fired off at least 30 rounds. Rio is a city rife with drug-gang violence in its vast slums, but school shootings are rare. The gunman had no criminal history, Rocha told a news conference. About 400 people were inside the school when the shooting began about 8:30 a.m. local time (7:30 a.m. EDT, 1130 GMT). The school serves grades one through eight. "What happened in Rio is without a doubt the worst incident of its kind to have taken place in Brazil," said Guaracy Mingardi, a crime and public safety expert at the University of Sao Paulo.Jade Ramos, a student at the school, said the gunman repeatedly yelled "I'm going to kill you all!" "He had already killed a lot of children in the first floor and in the yard," she told the Globo television network. "He kept telling the kids to face the wall and was shooting at their heads. The children kept begging, 'No, please!' There was a lot of blood, children agonizing on the stairs." Ramos said she escaped by running into a classroom, where a teacher then locked the door and barricaded it with tables. Police were alerted to the shooting when two young boys, at least one with a gunshot wound, ran up to two officers on patrol about two blocks away. The officers sprinted to the school and at least one quickly located the gunman on the second floor and traded shots with him. "He saw me and aimed a gun at me," said officer Marcio Alves. "I shot him in the legs, he fell down the stairs and then shot himself in the head." Rio Mayor Eduardo Paes said life at the four-story, pastel yellow and green school was turned into a "hellish nightmare." "This day would have been so much worse if it weren't for the hero policeman," Paes told reporters at the school. Authorities closed the school temporarily while they investigate, but Paes said it would reopen.Rio Gov. Sergio Cabral called the shooter a "psychopath" and said there were no indications anyone else was involved in the shooting, but that the investigation would continue. "We have to investigate where he got the weapons and where he learned to use them," the governor said. Terrified parents rushed to the school in the Realengo neighborhood. Television images showed them crying and screaming for information about their children. Zilda Nunes, 67, lives across the street from the school and said three of her grandchildren were inside when the shooting began. She screamed for help when she heard the gunfire, but didn't enter the building. As students fled, she offered them sugar water to help calm them down, she said. "There were so many children shot, so much blood," Nunes said. "People were asking for help, but what could I do?" Three helicopters were landing and taking off from a football field next to the school, ferrying the wounded to hospitals. Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff, attending an event in the capital, Brasilia, lamented the deaths of "defenseless children." "I ask for one minute of silence for these children who were taken so early from their life," she said, her voice cracking and eyes welling with tears. "It's not in the nature of our nation to have these types of crimes.""
"10-Aftenposten  «Everything is at stake if Norway is sentenced. In that case we have failed» Anders Behring Breivik (37) committed inhuman deeds. Now the court will decide whether Norway is punishing him in an inhuman way.  Nyhetsbrev:Redaktørens ukebrev Sjefredaktør Trine Eilertsen skriver om saker hun har festet seg ved uken som gikk. Ila Detention and Security Prison, March 2013: Anders Behring Breivik, the terrorist behind the 22 July 2011-attacks, gives his mother a hug. They say goodbye. Two weeks later, she passes away. These few minutes outside the glass wall in the visitor’s cabin is the only moment the terrorist has enjoyed physical contact with other persons, except professional staff, in almost five years, according to lawyer Øystein Storrvik. Why the terrorist files a lawsuit As a human being, we all enjoy certain rights. Human rights are supposed to reduce the state’s exercise of power. Has the system gone too far in placing Behring Breivik in isolation for 4,5 years? Or is Norway perfectly able to fulfill its human rights obligations, even when facing this mass murderer and terrorist?  These will be the main questions as Ms. Helen Andenæs Sekulic, a judge at the Oslo District Court, opens the case in the Telemark prison gym in the southern city of Skien on Tuesday 15. March. The terrorist has gone to court in order to get a legal judgement on whether the treatment he is receiving violates his rights as a human being. 3 years and 9 months after he stepped out of courtroom no. 250, in the basement of Oslo’s courthouse, Mr. Behring Breivik is returning to the legal apparatus which sentenced him in August 2012 to the severest penalty possible under Norwegian law, 21 years preventive detention. 4 days have been set aside for dealing with the civilian lawsuit raised by the 37-year-old against the Ministry of Justice and Public Safety. The terrorist asserts that his isolation violates the articles no. 3 and no. 8 in The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). The former article states that noone shall be exposed to «torture» or «inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment». The latter says everyone has the right to a private and family life. (see fact chart). The government, on the other hand, consider that the conditons he has been, and is serving under, in prison are well within the directions drawn up by ECHR jurisprudence. This is a story about Norway’s treatment of Anders Behring Breivik as a prisoner in isolation, and whether Norway is violating human rights. This story is not about the horrible misdeeds he committed on 22 July 2011, and all the human suffering he inflicted on thousands of survivors, bereaved and family members. Read editor in-chief Espen Egil Hansen's editorial (in Norwegian): Les også Why we write about Behring Breivik Says the system has gone too far Oslo, the first Friday in February: The lawyer who has been assigned the task of helping the terrorist with his lawsuit sits in a conference room near the court house. Øystein Storrvik has been the counsel for Behring Breivik since last summer.  Anders Behring Breivik's lawyer, Øyvind Storrvik. The experienced lawyer has served as a permanent defense attorney with Oslo District Court and Borgarting for 18 years, and he has been running his own law firm for 30 years. Most people know him as the lawyer who defended the NOKAS-robber David Toska and the well known Bandidos-member Lars Harnes. — This process is about minimum standards for human treatment. I think the system has gone much too far. That is why we want this tried in court, he says. Two basic conditions are important, according to Mr. Storrvik: — The opportunity to maintain a relationship with other human beings, and the opportunity to communicate and stay in touch with other people. He pauses, then emphazises something he finds just as important: — We do not have the death penalty in Norway. Therfore it is a dilemma that we have a system which removes so many of the things that make life worth living, he says. These are Norway’s most stringent terms of confinement Skien prison. The main gate is painted purple, orange and red, in stark contrast to the grey prison walls that divide them from us; the 82 inmates from the free. This is where he is living.  The terrorist Anders Behring Breivik (37) is serving his time under particularly high security in Telemark prison in Skien. He has spent 4,5 years in isolation. Now he will sue the government because he thinks these conditions constitute a violation of the human rights. Foto: Tor Erik Schrøder Since July 2011 the terrorist has been serving under «particularly high security» conditions in Ila Detention and Security Prison in Bærum right outside of Oslo and in Skien prison, 100 kilometres southwest of the capital. Particularly high level of security represents the very strictest prison regime in Norway. It is used in a very limited number of cases, when there exists a particular danger of escape, hostage taking or of renewed, serious crime. (see fact chart) This level can only be established when deemed strictly necessary for security. There is no limitation on how long a person can be held in such a maximum security department. During the past 10 years only six other inmates have been held there, all charged or sentenced for murder or severe drug crimes. The persons who did the longest time before Behring Breivik, served one year and 9 months. None of those serving their time on this security level has any relationship with inmates from other departments in the prison. The level of isolation may differ, however, based on among other things information from the police and other sources. The Norwegian Correctional Service may refuse visits and prevent prisoners from sending or receiving mail. Visits must be approved in advance, meetings will take place behind a glass wall and conversations are being monitored. Also a guard may be present in the room. The prison warden may ease these control measures, with the approval of the Correctional Service. In Behring Breivik’s case, they consider the terms of confinement and the isolation to be necessary for safety reasons. One of the few known cases when the terrorist’s security was challenged, happended last spring. One inmate in the Skien prison escaped from the prison’s exercise yard and found his way to the outside of the terrorist’s security department, where he was stopped by a locked door. Such is the terrorist’s isolation Behring Breivik is sitting behind several locked doors in the prison security department. For safety reasons, informations about his daily life is being withheld from the public. But we know a few things: In Ila as well in Skien he has had several rooms at his disposal. Every day the terrorist may move freely between a living room cell, an exercise cell and a study cell, according to a visitors’ report to the Parliamentary ombudsman from the Skien prison last year. In addition to this, he is offered time, on a daily basis, in a special exercise yard measuring about 50 sq. meters. He may not work out in the prison gym and he is not allowed to visit the library. He is not offered the chance to work, but there are facilities for private studies, according to the report.  Mr. Behring Breivik is being offered a daily walk in fresh air in a separate exercise yard measuring about 50 sq. meters. Aftenposten knows that he has access to printed newspapers and TV. Recently he also received a new game console, the Xbox 360. After a legally valid judgement he has not had access to a computer, but he has a typewriter. In principle, the terrorist has for 4,5 years been completely isolated from everyone else, except some professionals like prison guards or health care staff. Planned or organised time in the company of prison staff was, until June of last year, limited to one hour, once a week. Meetings with the lawyer take place in a special room behind a glass wall. The same goes for the professional prison visitor who regularly comes to see him. Even conversations with medical personell, whom he may see twice weekly, take place behind a transparent wall and with visual surveillance. He is also offered the services of a psychologist or a psychiatrist. The Parliamentary ombudsman after visiting Behring Breivik (in Norwegian): Les også He should have more company The pressure of isolation The terrorist has no contact with other inmates, and he receives no visit from outside.  All cells in Skien prison are alike. The terrorist can study in a cell of this type. Foto: Telemark prison, Skien According to Storrvik the physical conditions of confinement are not the most important themes in the upcoming process. They have improved, he says. Behring Breivik wants the court’s judgement on the combined «pressure of isolation».Even if the Correctional Service says the isolation must be compensated with more contact to prison staff, facilities for studies, activities and recreation, Mr. Storrvik says certain things cannot be compensated for. — It is rather obvious, that those persons who have a job to do in the prison are not concerned with the same things that he is. All normal, human relations have been removed. There is no indication that changes are under way in the terms of confinement. The question in this case is whether this is right, or whether one has gone to far, says the attorney, before he answers his own question: — I think it is clearly harmful for him to serve out his sentence the way he is doing. - Extremely long time The assertion that isolation is harmful, is supported by many. — All research indicates that isolation harms human beings, cognitively (involving conscious intellectual activity), physically and mentally. Being isolated for 4,5 years is an extremely long time, says the renowned Danish psychologist Ida Koch, who is a member of the network Skandinavisk isolasjonsnettverk.  This group wants to contribute to better knowledge and a critical focus on isolation in prisons. Ms. Koch emphasizes that she is not familiar with the details of Behring Breivik’s prison regime. The psychologist says one can never be sure in advance what kind of harm the inmates will be exposed to during isolation, but selfinflicted damage, suicide, depression, fear and psychosis are among the most usual negative effects, according to a major Danish isolation study in the 1990’s. It also showed that after 40 days, the relative risk of hospitalization for mental illness was about 50 times higher for prisoners sitting in isolation. Ingebjørg Nytrøen has been a prison officer for 18 years, 15 of them at the reception department in Oslo prison, where many of the detainees are held in isolation. — Isolation may harm a person for the rest of his life. In my experience isolation may lead to depression and suicidal thoughts, fear, inner unrest, nervousness and psychosis. Isolated prisoners may develop outrage and irrational thoughts, actions and behaviour, according to Ms. Nytrøen, who is now working as a prison superintendent at the Correctional Service’s educational centre (KRUS) Everything at stake if Norway is sentenced But then, consider this: Why should we worry about how a person who murdered 77 people is living in prison? Thomas Horn, who is a partner in the Schjødt law firm, says a good approach to this question is to think back on the days just after 22 July 2011. -Then we stood together as a community, in spite of being shocked and traumatized. And the trial in itself was conducted in a way which is worthy of a state under the rule of law. Norway was put at a difficult test, which we passed, says Mr. Horn, who wrote his doctoral thesis on solitary confinement last year. Even if Norway passed the first test, it is equally important that we pass the one we are facing now, he says. - What is really at stake? — Everyting is at stake if Norway is sentenced. In that case we will have failed in the follow-up. We like to see ourselves as a human rights nation. If we should fail when it comes to the conditions of confinement for Behring Breivik, it would become more difficult for us to criticize bad practice in other nations.  Everyting is at stake if Norway is sentenced, says lawyer Thomas Horn. Foto: Berit Roald, NTB Scanpix Furthermore, adds the lawyer: — The basic human rights are valid for everyone. Nobody, no matter what, may be excluded by definition as a human being. The court does not practice tit for tat, the Book of Genesis does that, says Horn. What will the court be stressing? But what are in fact the main assesments the court will make in order to establish whether Norway is violating the human rights in the treatment of this terrorist? — It is a complex consideration, where they have to take into account the duration and degree of solitary confinement, the physical conditions and other control measures the isolated prisoner may be subject to. What will be decisive, is what harmful effects this type of confinement has, and if there is a sufficient justification for the isolation, says Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen, a professor and scientific leader at the centre for human rights, Norsk senter for menneskerettigheter, University of Oslo (UiO). Thomas Horn says the court will find it difficult to define solitary confinement as a violation of the ECHR, article 3. But recent practice at the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) may indicate that the court is increasingly recognizing the notion that isolation is harmful. Therefore, governments may in the future be subject to a stricter assessment, he says. The judges will in this case consider the complete conditions of Behring Breivik’s confinement. — Isolation will then be just one important element. It is worth noting that prisoners who are mentally ill, which I think Behring Breivik definitely is, has a right to a very close monitoring of his health conditon. Well within guidelines In four and a half weeks the terrorist will again face the public when he enters the prison gym hall in Skien, where he will be sitting opposite to Ms. Sekulic.  Four days have been set aside for the trial in the gym building in Skien prison. Behring Breivik wants to attend the entire trial. Foto: Telemark prison, Skien Behring Breivik will be present during the entire main hearings and give his evidence. Among the witnesses is the psychiatrist Randi Rosenquist, who previously estimated his mental situation. She made several interviews with Breivik, and has written several reports. She stated in court in 2012 that Breivik «based his vision on a delusion, not on a psychosis.» The court will also hear prison employees as witnesses. Marius Emberland, counsel with the Office of the Attorney General, will lead the trial on behalf of the government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and Public Security. — The government’s main argument is that the terms of confinement in this case are well within the guidelines defined by legal practice as concerns both articles 3 and 8 in the ECHR, he says. He emphasizes that his client, the Norwegian Correctional Service, presupposes that the conditions in prison are in full compliance with the human rights. Whom the government will bring as witnesses is not yet known. Solitary confinement? But how isolated is the mass murderer really in prison? Mr. Emberland has the following comment on the description of Behring Breivik’s living conditions in prison as «isolation»: — He is and has been imprisoned in a jail with a particularly high level of security. The parties may disagree on how to characterize this, and we will return to the question during the trial, he says.  In October last year the lawyers Øystein Storrvik, counsel for Behring Breivik, and Marius Emberland with the Office of the Attorney General of Norway met in Oslo District Court in order to plan the main proceedings. Foto: Vidar Ruud Professor Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen, however has no doubts about the notion «isolation». He says Behring Breivik is treated with a high degree of isolation. — Yes, this is absolutely clear. As far as I understand, Behring Breivik only communicates with professional prison staff, and this involves a very extensive isolation. Only rarely is someone being subjected to such a long lasting isolation under so strict conditions, he says. - Many people are concerned with the harmful effects of solitary confinement. What importance does the ECHR attach to this? — This is a decisive element in the ECHR’s court practice. If the inmate is at risk of getting lasting mental damage, it will take a lot to continue the isolation. In that case, measures must be introduced in order to counteract the harmful effects, he says. Legitimate security or additional punishment? In 2014 Behring Breivik’s then defense lawyer Tord Jordet, with the Lippestad law firm, told Aftenposten: «Breivik is being isolated from contact with other inmates and is mostly prevented from communicating with persons outside of the prison. As this is entirely justified by the things he was already sentenced for, this looks like an illegal additional punishment, and an obvious human rights violation.» Mr. Storrvik answers this about whether he agrees to Mr. Jordet’s description of solitary confinement as being an additional punishment: — Quite obviously it is an additional punisment, to put it mildly. Marianne Vollan, managing director of the Correctional Services Directorate, rejected in Aftenposten two years ago the claims that Behring Breivik’s terms of confinement represent an additional punishment.She stated that there are no special rules for the terrorist. — We follow, at all times, the actual regulations, she said. - A particularly high security level can only ble established when it is necessary for safety reasons. Isn’t this justification completely legitimate, Mr. Storrvik? — Every severe punishment will have a large security aspect connected to it, and the entire process of sitting out the sentence will be planned according to security. But there will be a limit to how much consideration one should give to security, as seen against a human treatment. I think one has gone too far in this respect, he says. Storrvik mentions all the meetings behind a transparent wall as an example of something he considers to be «obviously an unjustified and excessive safety assessment». — From the nature of this case, we of course understand that the man qualifies for the strictest terms of confinement in Norway. We think this security level must be given a content which is more humane for him, says Storrvik. Within, but approaching a limit The case opens on Tuesday 15 March here in this prison gymnasium in Skien. Foto: Esben Reiersen Behring Breivik’s case will probably move on to Norway’s Supreme court, and may even end up with the European human rights court in Strasbourg. – This is highly probable, and I think the process will be clarifying on a national level, says Storrvik.This is how Marius Emberland at the Office of the Attorney General answers to the question whether the government also will take the case to the very top, if necessarry. — I see no reason to anticipate this, he says. 10, 20, 30 eller 40 years..? Then the question is this: Is there a limit to how long the terrorist can be in solitary confinement before it gets inhuman? Professor Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen says the handling of Behring Breivik complies with Norway’s human rights obligations. — Yes, I think so, as of today. However, we are approaching a limit. Nobody can live in isolation for ever, and Breivik will sooner or later have to be reintroduced into a social community inside the prison, he says. Thomas Horn adds that the terrorist’s confinement at some time must become less stringent. — It is easy to understand that Anders Behring Breivik represents a security risk, but to what extent and when could and should one ease the security measures he is being subject to? How many more years must he remain isolated? 10, 20, 30 of 40 years…?  «Reopening the wounds» — The upcoming trial is about the terrorist’s prison conditions, not about ther persons affected. He will have much attention, and this will hurt many people. We hope he will not be given the opportunity to exploit the case as a rostrum for his political points of view, says Lisbeth Kristine Røyneland, who is the leader of the national supporting group following the tragedy of 22. July 2011. Røyneland lost her daughter Synne (18) in Utøya.  — We of course want the terrorist to have as little attention as possible. However, we understand that everything concerning this person involves major public interest. Even foreign news organisastions will be here, and we must adapt to this reality. - What do you think about the fact that the terrorist has been isolated for 4,5 years in prison? — The terrorist murdered 77 innocent people, and inflicted thousands of people harm, sorrow and bereavement. He has received his sentence, and is sitting his time. We are not concerned with his conditions in prison, says Røyneland. - What if he wins the case? — We must accept that, if it happens. Ms. Røyneland says members of the supporting group need information about the consequences such a decision in his favor would have for his prison conditions. — We are therefore distributing letters where we try to provide the answers. - Do someone fear that his conditions might be less severe? — No, this is not my impression. Lisbeth Kristine Røyneland says the trial will be distressing and painful for a lot of people, and some may see it as a trigger, reopening old wounds. — They come regularly, and everything published about him might reopen the wounds for those of us who are directly involved. The support group is pleading with the press to be as cautious as possible, particularly as to the publication of pictures of the terrorist and the design of front pages. 69 persons, most of them members of the Labour Party’s youth organisastion AUF, were shot and killed by Anders Behring Breivik in Utøya on 22. July 2011. – The AUF is not a party to this case, and we do not comment on the conditons being brought up by the terrorist. But we are counting on that no human rights have been or are being violated. Most important from our point of view is that the terrorist will not exploit the trial as a rostrum for his fascist propaganda, states the AUF-chairman Mani Hussaini. Fakta The terrorist Anders Behring Breivik (37) Was sentenced to 21 years of preventive detention with a minimum of 10 years incarceration on 24 August 2012, for the terror attacks on government buildings in Oslo and in Utøya in Buskerud on 22 July 2011. He killed 8 people in Oslo and 69 in Utøya. He is serving out his sentence under a regime of particularly high security in Telemark prison in Skien, 100 kilometers southwest of Oslo and in Ila prison in Bærum near the capital. He is suing the government for violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, articles 3 and 8.The main proceedings will start on 15. March in Skien prison. Fakta Solitary confinement This is no unambiguous phenomenon. Solitary confinement is a form of imprisonment in which an inmate is isolated from any human contact, though often with the exception of members of prison staff. The notion is also sometimes used in psychiatric treatment.Forced isolation involves strictly limited autonomy. That is why isolation is often referred to as a «prison within the prison». Solitary confinement also reduces the quality of mental and physical stimuli. The detainee is kept locked inside a cell, where there is a limited amount of sensations. Fakta Particularly High Security Level First introduced on 1 March 2002. A regime of Particularly High Security Level may be enforced when special security provisions are deemed necessary. Particularly High Security Level is the most stringent regime possible to impose on inmates in Norwegian prisons. It entails the following: Especially secure cells and wing. No contact with inmates from other wings or units. Some contact with inmates from one’s own wing or unit, depending on a security assessment. The limited contact with other inmates shall be compensated by extended contact with prison employees and adequate work-, education-, and other activities as well as leisure time activities. A total of 11 inmates in high risk departments duing the past 10 years.Source: The Norwegian Correctional Service Directorate"
"11-Fox News  El Paso shooting leaves 20 dead, 26 injured; investigators probing potential 'nexus to hate crime' August 6, 2019 1:43pm EDT Texas Gov. Greg Abbott says 20 killed, more than two dozen injured in El Paso mass shooting Authorities hold press conference on deadly shooting in El Paso, Texas. A gunman killed 20 people and injured 26 others Saturday after he opened fire at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, state and city officials said. "Texas grieves with the people of El Paso today," said Gov. Greg Abbott at an evening news conference following one of the deadliest mass shootings in America. The casualties were the highest number since 2017, when gunmen killed 58 and 26 people, respectively, in Las Vegas and Sutherland Springs, Texas. "Texas grieves with the people of El Paso today." — Texas Gov. Greg Abbott "The scene was a horrific one," said El Paso Police Chief Greg Allen, who added that many of the wounded had life-threatening injuries. The suspected gunman has not been publicly named, but two law enforcement officials identified him to The Associated Press as 21-year-old Patrick Crusius of Allen, Texas. It was unclear what connection the suspect had to El Paso. Texas state lawmaker Jeff Leach said in a tweeted statement that the suspect graduated from Plano Senior High School in 2017.  From left, Samuel Lerma, Arzetta Hodges and Desiree Quintanar attend a vigil for victims of the deadly shooting that occurred earlier in the day at a shopping center Saturday, Aug. 3, 2019, in El Paso, Texas. (Associated Press) More than a dozen law enforcement officials were seen Saturday evening surrounding a home in Allen, which is about 26 miles north of Dallas. The group included agents from the FBI, Texas Department of Public Safety and federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. A woman answered the door after a group of officers knocked. They appeared to speak with her briefly and then she closed the door. A short time later, the door reopened and officers entered. Neighbor Alice Baland, who lives four houses down, told The Associated Press a retired couple lives at the home associated with the suspect. She described them as sweet people who regularly attend church. Chief Allen said investigators were examining a manifesto that may have been written by the suspect and would indicate a “nexus to a hate crime,” but declined to offer details. The suspect will likely face capital murder charges, Allen said.  Allen said his department received initial reports of the shooting at 10:39 a.m. and first responders arrived six minutes later. Police asked people to stay away from the area and to look for missing family members at a school being used as a reunification area. El Paso Police Sgt. Enrique Carrillo told reporters shortly before 1 p.m. that one person was in custody and there was no longer an "imminent threat" to the area. Hundreds of shoppers At an earlier news conference, El Paso Police Sgt. Robert Gomez said the suspect was taken into custody without incident and no law enforcement officers fired their weapons. The Walmart was near capacity at the time of the shooting, with hundreds of shoppers inside along with 100 employees during the busy back-to-school shopping season. "This is unprecedented in El Paso," said Gomez. Ryan Mielke, a spokesman for University Medical Center of El Paso, told Fox News that 13 patients -- one of whom died at the hospital -- were being treated at the facility's Level 1 trauma center. Mielke told the Associated Press that two children, ages 2 and 9, were stabilized at the medical center before being transferred to the neighboring El Paso Children's Hospital. Del Sol Medical Center told Fox News it had received 11 patients, nine of whom were critical but stable condition and two who were in stable condition. The patients' ages ranged from 35 to 82, the hospital said. Mexico President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said late Saturday that three Mexican nationals had been killed in the shooting, while Foreign Relations Secretary Marcelo Ebrard said that six Mexicans were wounded. Ebrard identified three of the wounded as 45-year-old Mario de Alba Montes, 44-year-old Olivia Mariscal Rodriguez, and 10-year-old Erika de Alba Mariscal. Ebrard added that the man and woman are from Chihuahua and all three are being treated at an El Paso hospital. The other three wounded Mexicans were two men and a woman from Torreon, in Coahuila state, and Ciudad Juarez. Their names were not given. Residents were volunteering to give blood to the injured in response to a police tweet that donations were "needed urgently," while police and military members were trying to help people who were looking for missing loved ones. 'It's chaos right now' "It's chaos right now," said Austin Johnson, an Army medic at nearby Fort Bliss, who volunteered to help at the shopping center and later at the school that was serving as a reunification center.  President Trump initially tweeted that there had been "Terrible shootings in ElPaso, Texas. Reports are very bad, many killed. Working with State and Local authorities, and Law Enforcement. Spoke to Governor to pledge total support of Federal Government. God be with you all!" Hours later, Trump tweeted that the shooting "was not only tragic, it was an act of cowardice. I know that I stand with everyone in this Country to condemn today’s hateful act. There are no reasons or excuses that will ever justify killing innocent people. [First lady] Melania and I send our heartfelt thoughts and prayers to the great people of Texas." White House Deputy Press Secretary Steven Groves said the president "continues to receive updates from his national security team on the tragic shootings in El Paso. Federal Government personnel, including the FBI and ATF, are on the ground in El Paso actively assisting local authorities, who are leading the response to the shootings. The President has pledged the full support of the Federal Government to Governor Abbott."  Vanessa Saenz, a witness, told Fox News that she heard several "pops" near the area and saw a man in a black shirt and cargo pants with a weapon shooting outside the building before entering the Walmart. "He was just pointing at people and just shooting," she added. Another witness told Fox News that his mother died at the scene. A witness told CBS News that he was about to enter the Walmart when he heard at least 10 gunshots and saw an elderly lady fall to the ground. He said he was not sure if she was shot.  A family of three was among a dozen people waiting outside a bus station. They were trying to return to their car that was in a blocked-off Walmart parking lot. 'I heard the shots' "I heard the shots but I thought they were hits, like roof construction," Adriana Quezada, 39, who was in the women's clothing section of Walmart with her two children, told The Associated Press. Videos showed some injured people being brought to a nearby Sam's Club. Abbott said the shooting was "a heinous and senseless act of violence." "Our hearts go out to the victims of this horrific shooting and to the entire community in this time of loss," he said. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said his office was "ready to give full support to all federal, state, and local law enforcement who are on the scene now and to those who will be conducting the ongoing investigation." Democratic presidential candidate Beto O’Rourke, who used to represent El Paso in the House of Representatives, tweeted that the shooting was truly heartbreaking." O'Rourke appeared shaken as he appeared at a candidate forum in Las Vegas on Saturday shortly after news of the shooting was reported. He said he had called his wife before taking the stage and said the shooting shatters "any illusion that we have that progress is inevitable" on tackling gun violence. "We have to find some reason for optimism and hope or else we consign ourselves to a future where nearly 40,000 people a year will lose their lives to gun violence and I cannot accept that," O'Rourke said. O'Rourke's campaign later said the candidate had canceled planned campaign events in Nevada and California. O'Rourke told reporters he was going back to El Paso to "be with my family and to be with my hometown." MISSISSIPPI WALMART SHOOTING VICTIMS IDENTIFIED; SUSPECT CHARGED WITH MURDER The Democrat said he'd heard early reports that the shooter might have had a military-style weapon, saying we need to "keep that s--t on the battlefield and do not bring it into our communities." Speaking from the Las Vegas airport later, O'Rourke offered ways that people outside El Paso can help the victims. "I know folks are thinking about us right now. I don't have words," he said. "I can't fully believe this has happened. I want to do everything I can, I know everyone wants to do everything they can to make sure everyone is OK and the community is OK." Rep. Veronica Escobar, D-Texas, who currently represents El Paso in Congress, tweeted that she is “utterly heartbroken” by the news of the shooting in El Paso and said she is monitoring the situation. “Please stay safe,” she added. South Bend, Ind., Mayor and 2020 presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg also weighed, tweeting: "My grandmother used to take me to Cielo Vista Mall. Now it's one more mass shooting scene. How many more must grieve before we act? #ElPaso". Saturday’s shooting comes just four days after a gunman opened fire at a Walmart in Northern Mississippi, leaving two dead and a police officer injured. In response to the latest shooting, Walmart tweeted: "We're in shock over the tragic events at Cielo Vista Mall in El Paso ... We’re praying for the victims, the community & our associates, as well as the first responders. We’re working closely with law enforcement & will update as appropriate. EL PASO WALMART SHOOTING WITNESS DESCRIBES MOMENT WHEN SHE SAW GUNMAN On Sunday, a gunman killed three people – including a 6-year-old boy – and injured 13 others before turning the gun on himself at a Northern California food festival. CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP El Paso, which has about 680,000 residents, is in West Texas and sits across the border from Juarez, Mexico. The city has become a focal point of the ongoing debate over Trump's immigration policies. Fox News' Garrett Tenney and The Associated Press contributed to this report."
"12-NYPost  CHILLING WORDS WRITTEN IN COLD BLOOD Post Staff Report Mass murderer Jiverly Wong mailed this rambling, paranoid letter — ostensibly intended to explain his coldblooded spree — to a Syracuse TV station just hours before opening fire in a Binghamton immigrant-assistance center. The letter, dated March 18, was postmarked April 3, the same day Wong killed 13 innocent people and wounded four others before taking his own life.Date: March-18-2009 Dear: New Ten Now I am Jiverly Wong shooting the people The first I want to say sorry I know a little English I hope you under stand all of this. Of course you need to know why I shooting? Because undercover cop gave me a lot of ass during eighteen years. I got seven years and eight month delivery to grocery in the California. Came back New York on the August 2007. Let talk about when I live in California. Such as . . . cop used 24 hours the technique of ultramodern and camera for burn the chemical in my house. For switch the channel Ti.Vi for adjust the fan. For made me unbreathable. For made me vomit. For connect the music into my ear. Undercover cop usual coined some nasty was not true about me and spread a rumor to the receive and some people know me con duce toward many people prejudiced and selfish to me . . . cop made me lost my job . . . Cop put me became poor. Let talk about when I live at the 28 Baker St. 2nd Floor. Johnson City. New York. 13790. It terrible when I live there such as . . . cop wait until midnight when off the light and went to bed. Cop unlock my door and came in take a sit in my room on the thirteen time had three time touch me when I sleeping. One time stolen 20 dollar in my wallet. One time used electric gun shoot at the behind my neck. (That time I did not know English) Please continue second page. Thank you. From 1990 to 1995 New York undercover cop try to get a car accident with me. Such as when I driving on the highway and on the street undercover cop sud denly brake the car stop immediately at the of front my car . . . cop did it 32 time like that during 1990 to 1995 but I never hit the car Many time from 1990 to 1997 at the day time . . . cop exploit unknon English and went to my house knock the door for harass and domi neer. Of course during that time cop coined something was not true about me and spread rumour nasty like the California cop. From August 2007 until now cop gave me not to much ass One time cop leave a mas sage in my voice mail and said come back your country after five minute I send a text message to them I said I will call the police and they send it To me they said they are the police Dear . New Ten Now . Right now I still get unemployment benefit of the company Shop Vac Endicott. New York State Department of Labor was cheat and un paid from December – 1st – 2008 to December – 28th – 2008. I already claim weekly benefit from that date. Any way I can not accepted my poor life. Before I cut my poor life I must oneself get a judge job for make an impartial with undercover cop by at least two people with me go to return to the dust of earth. Already impartial now . . . cop bring about this shooting cop must responsible. And you have a nice day."
"13-Fox News  Buffalo mass shooting: NYC police upping patrols, resources in minority communities after attack Accused mass shooter Payton Gendron has pleaded not guilty in Saturday's Tops attack May 15, 2022 9:25am EDT FBI investigating Buffalo grocery store shooting as hate crime Former FBI investigator Bill Daly joined 'Fox & Friends Weekend' to discuss the latest on the shooting at a Buffalo, New York, grocery store. New York City police deployed increased patrols and counterterrorism resources to certain parts of the city, including around churches and houses of worship in communities of color, in the wake of Saturday’s horrific attack at a Buffalo grocery story.  Upstate New York law enforcement officials have released their first booking photo showing 18-year-old Payton Gendron, who they say opened fire at a Buffalo grocery story, killing 10 people and wounding at least three others. Eleven of the victims were Black, while two were White, police have said.  Payton S. Gendron is seen in a booking photo from May 15, 2022 (Erie County District Attorney) Meanwhile, the New York Police Department, or NYPD, said in an email to Fox News Digital that investigators have found "no threat to New York City" as a result of Sunday’s attack, but said it has shifted resources "out of an abundance of caution."  "[W]e have shifted counterterrorism and patrol resources to give special attention to a number of locations and areas including major houses of worship in communities of color," NYPD spokesperson Sgt. Brendan Ryan wrote.  PHOTOS FROM THE CRIME SCENE:  Warning: The following contains graphic imagesImage 1 of 5A crowd gathers as police investigate after a shooting at a supermarket on Saturday, May 14, 2022, in Buffalo, N.Y.  (AP Photo/Joshua Bessex) * 		 Ryan added that the department contacted Buffalo Police Department immediately to offer assistance. The department has also begun searching its own databases to see if Gendron had any nexus to New York City, or if they had any information about the alleged gunman that would be worth sharing.  A law enforcement source familiar with the investigation said the NYPD has so far found no connection between the suspect and New York City.  BUFFALO SHOOTER LIKELY PLANNED ATTACK MONTHS AHEAD OF TIME, AUTHORITIES SAY  Gendron, who is White, drove up to the Tops grocery store around 2:30 p.m. and immediately began firing off shots – wounding four people in front of the market before making his way inside, Buffalo Police Commissioner Joseph Gramaglia said. Three of the four people died.  ATTORNEY GENERAL GARLAND SAYS JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS INVESTIGATING BUFFALO MASS SHOOTING 'AS A HATE CRIME' Once inside, he exchanged fire with store security guard Aaron Salter, who was a retired police officer. Salter fired several rounds at Gendron before the suspect fatally shot him, Gramaglia said. Gendron then allegedly made his way around the store shooting several other victims. When confronted by police, Gendron allegedly placed the rifle to his neck before dropping the weapon and surrendering, the police chief said.   Gendron was arraigned late Saturday, where he pleaded not guilty. He was ordered held without bail and is due back in court on Thursday.  Stephanie Pagones is a Digital Reporter for FOX Business and Fox News. Story tips can be sent to stephanie.pagones@fox.com and on Twitter: @steph_pagones. "
"14-Fox News  Austin Plane Crash: Criminal Act or Domestic Terrorism? Fox NewsJanuary 7, 2015 2:38pm EST A "cowardly, criminal" act ... or domestic terrorism? That's one of many questions being asked in the wake of Thursday's plane crash in Austin, Texas, where a software engineer with an anti-government grudge crashed his single-engine plane into an office building that housed nearly 200 Internal Revenue Service employees. The pilot, 53-year-old Joseph Stack, killed both himself and a 67-year-old IRS employee, Vernon Hunter, in the attack. Stack is believed to have posted an online manifesto just hours earlier, detailing his longstanding gripes with "big brother," the "IRS man" and the Catholic church. White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters aboard Air Force One that White House officials will let an investigation "play out" before determining how to label the incident. He had earlier said that the incident did not appear to be terrorism, and when asked specifically if domestic terrorism was a possibility, he said he did not suspect ''somebody like an Al Qaeda.'' Austin Police Chief Art Acevedo, meanwhile, labeled the incident a single act by a lone individual and refused to classify it as terrorism. "I call it a cowardly, criminal act, and there was no excuse for it," he told reporters. SLIDESHOW: Small Plane Crashes Into Austin Office Building But at least one lawmaker, U.S. Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, disagreed and compared the incident to the 1995 bombing that killed 168 people in the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. "Like the larger-scale tragedy in Oklahoma City, this was a cowardly act of domestic terrorism," Doggett said in a statement. "Stack's apparent website message reflects the steadily increasing flow of 'the government is out to get me' paranoia." Matthew Chandler, a spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security, referred FoxNews.com to Gibbs' comment when asked to clarify why the incident has not been labeled an act of domestic terrorism. Ken Gude, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank based in Washington, said that while it's appropriate for Gibbs to reserve judgment on the matter, Stack's act of violence has all the markings of domestic terrorism. "It certainly appears as if his motives would qualify as domestic terrorism," said Gude, a former policy analyst at the Center for National Security Studies. "He put out an anti-IRS creed, he used an airplane to crash into a building with the clear intention of causing destruction and death." But Gude urged caution before placing any label on the event, which he characterized as an inexcusable, unacceptable act that "should not be tolerated" in any way whatsoever. He said the Austin crash differed from the Oklahoma City bombing because Stack apparently acted alone. (Militia sympathizer Timothy McVeigh was executed in 2001 for organizing the Oklahoma City bombing; his accomplice, Terry Nichols, was sentenced three years later to 161 consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole for assisting him.) DHS officials explicitly warned against the potential emergence of terrorist groups or "lone wolf extremists" in a report issued in April. The report, "Rightwing Extremism: Current Economic and Political Climate Fueling Resurgence in Radicalization and Recruitment," found that while no specific threat existed, there was the potential for violence from extremists concerned about illegal immigration, abortion, increased federal power and restrictions on firearms. The report followed a similar DHS document released in January 2009 that detailed left-wing threats, focusing on cyberattacks and radical "eco-terrorist" groups like Earth Liberation Front. Jena Baker McNeill, a homeland security policy analyst for the Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank based in Washington, said it's "too early" to make a definitive determination of whether Thursday's incident was a criminal or terrorist act. "I would also await more details from the investigation," McNeill wrote in an e-mail. "I will say that the number of fatalities should not have an impact on whether something is labeled an act of terrorism — but again, still waiting on more details before a conclusion can be made." Gude echoed that sentiment, saying the focus shouldn't be on casualty rates, but rather on the source of the extremism. "There has always been an undercurrent of anti-government groups in the United States," he said. "It's appropriate for our law enforcement, intelligence and security agencies to be vigilant and be aware that this threat is real." Gude continued, "There is concern, certainly, about the volume of extremist views that seems to be percolating in the political space in the United States. But it's also evident that this type of threat from extremism has existed for a very long time and it will be with us for a very long time." Several news reports likened Thursday's event to that of Charles Bishop, the teenage Al Qaeda sympathizer who flew a small plane into a Bank of America building in Tampa, Fla., in 2002, and Johnny Lee Wicks, a 66-year-old shotgun-wielding retiree who killed a security guard and wounded a deputy U.S. marshal at a Las Vegas courthouse in January. FBI officials have said Wicks was angry about losing a government lawsuit in which he had challenged a cut in his monthly Social Security benefits."
"15-FoxNews  Nine people killed in shooting at Charleston, South Carolina church Fox NewsJanuary 26, 2017 10:01am EST Geraldo: Charleston massacre 'an act of domestic terrorism' Church shooting suspect Dylann Roof in custody after capture in North Carolina This is a rush transcript from "The Five," June 18, 2015. This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated. DANA PERINO, CO-HOST: Hello, everyone. I'm Dana Perino. The suspect accused of killing nine people at a church in Charleston, South Carolina last night is in custody, and a federal investigation is under way. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) LORETTA LYNCH, ATTORNEY GENERAL: This is a crime that has reached into the heart of that community. The Department of Justice has opened a hate crime investigation into this shooting incident. Acts like this one have no place in our country and no place in a civilized society. (END VIDEO CLIP) PERINO: 21-year-old Dylann Roof was arrested this morning in North Carolina, more than 200 miles from the massacre scene during a traffic stop. Police received a tip about a suspicious car in the area and arrested Roof without incident, South Carolina now in mourning after this unthinkable tragedy. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) NIKKI HALEY, SOUTH CAROLINA GOVERNOR: We woke up today -- and the heart and soul of South Carolina was broken. And so we have some grieving to. And we've got some pain we have to go through. JOSPEH RILEY, CHARLESTON MAYOR: We will work to heal them and love them and support them, and that church -- as long as we live. (END VIDEO CLIP) PERINO: We have special coverage throughout the hour with breaking developments. And we begin with Fox's Rich Edson, live outside the Emanuel AME church in Charleston. Rich. RICH EDSON, FOX NEWS: Good afternoon, Dana. And here we're waiting to see whether or not authorities will bring Dylann Roof back to Charleston, South Carolina. As you mentioned, authorities arrested him about four hours from here, right across the border in North Carolina. Police are saying that last evening he attended what was a bible study at the church over my shoulder here at 8 o'clock. By 9 o'clock he was shooting, leaving nine people dead, and then opening up a manhunt that brought authorities across state lines. The victims have been announced, aging anywhere from age 26 to age 87, including a library worker, a high school track coach and a state senator and pastor. The federal government right now, according to Attorney General Loretta Lynch is assessing whether or not this meets the qualification, definition of a hate crime, whether this was racially motivated. This was a historically black church, the Emanuel African Mythical -- Methodist Episcopal Church. Its roots tracing all the way back to the 18th century. And so federal officials aren't saying right now whether they will bring federal charges under hate crime laws and that something the FBI and other officials are investigating here. So from here we were waiting to see whether or not they bring him back to South Carolina. There have been vigils. There have been comments from those running for president, those local officials elected here among others. And of course, President Obama speaking earlier, offering his condolences, ending with saying how many times does he have to do this and calling for stronger gun control. Dana? PERINO: Rich, thank you so much for joining us. We're going to take it around the table a little bit. And let's start -- Eric Bolling, have a chance to ask a question. ERIC BOLLING, CO-HOST: Rich, could you give us -- to talk to us a little bit about the reverend, the pastor. Great man, I guess. He's a state senator as well, but had some young children? Talk to the folks here about what kind of man he was. EDSON: Sure. Two young children, one of the youngest black pastors in the state leading this congregation in this church here, he was a state senator, led the church here. Reports that he knew President Obama and you know folks are saying just about 40, 41-years-old and a real, real loss for the community here. PERINO: Juan? JUAN WILLIAMS, CO-HOST: You know Rich, the story about what happened inside is so amazing to me. Apparently, the shooter reloaded five times, I'm told. Is that right? EDSON: That I'm not sure of. What we are hearing from various reports and law enforcement officials is that he sat in around 8 o'clock saying that he wanted to be part of their bible study that began at 8 o'clock. And they received a call by 9 o'clock saying there was a shooting inside. There are reports that he let one of the person -- people attending that church service go, so that they could tell what was going to happen inside there. And then he unloaded with some sort of automatic weapon, killing the remaining people inside. WILLIAMS: And is there any confirmation that he said that the reason he had to do this is because black people were taking over the country, you're raping our women? EDSON: That is something that has been reported. That's not something that we have independently confirmed. But if you look at his Facebook page, he's got two in his picture. He's got two pictures of him harkening back to racial regimes like a part side in South Africa, where you have a white minority dominating a black majority in that country. And so that's leading investigators to believe that along with the fact that this was done as a historically black church that there are racial motivations behind this. And that's something that the FBI and the attorney general say their investigating. PERINO: Kimberly? KIMBERLY GUILFOYLE, CO-HOST: Yeah. So there's so much we're still trying to get developing information about this. What can you tell us about any reaction or information about the family of the shooter? EDSON: Well, right now the families have been confirming along with the coroner's office that they've lost their loved ones. And right now, there are no plans yet for funerals or memorial services. Imagine -- you have to imagine, 24 hours ago these worshippers were preparing to go to the church behind me and here we are 24 hours later and families have learned this news and are now arranging funeral services. But of course, people are talking about their loved ones, talking about the high school coach, the librarian who had worked at that library for 31 years. Of course, you mentioned the pastor and the state senator. And we're going to expect an outpouring like this, like we've been hearing over the last few hours now to continue for the days and certainly the weeks ahead. GUILFOYLE: OK. What about the family of the shooter? EDSON: We haven't heard much about the family of the shooter. What we do know is he has two prior arrests from this year. Police authorities are saying that essentially, he went to a mall, made strange comments. They arrested him. He was in possession of a prescription drug. Went back to the mall that he wasn't supposed to go back to a couple of months later, and that's it for priors that we know right now. PERINO: All right, Gutfeld? GREG GUTFELD, CO-HOST: Rich, I'm curious about this traffic stop because we keep being told there was no incident. I'm just wondering, how -- what -- how did they catch him? Was this a normal dragnet? What did he do? Does anybody have any idea how he reacted? It seems to me that like, the rare -- what's so rare about this is the guy wanted to live because he was so proud of his act, the coward. EDSON: Yeah. And he was you know, just four hours away from here, there was a multistate dragnet trying to catch this guy. And what authorities are saying is that some local folks living up in the Shelby, North Carolina had noticed him acting suspiciously, had seen the shots on TV or on the internet that this was a suspect in the shooting down here in Charleston, South Carolina. Called the police, they pulled him over and you know we saw earlier on Fox News today, video of that car they arrested him in. Fully intact on a flatbed being brought to a police impound yard. So police really aren't saying much beyond other than there really was no incident beyond, they pulled him over and apprehended him. PERINO: There's actually a very interesting story in the Shelby Star about the florist who spotted the car, called police and then followed the car for awhile. And then once they were -- when the florists were assured that the police had him, they did a u-turn and let the police do their work because it actually very interesting story and amazing citizens to have done that. GUILFOYLE: That's fantastic. See something, say something. PERINO: Yeah. Rich, one last question for you, I'm curious about if you just paint the scene for what it's like now. We're seeing a lot of the developments over the day, but what is the mood there on the streets? EDSON: Well, it's incredibly somber. And you know you've got this enormous media presence here. They just opened Calhoun street, which where the church is, a couple of hours ago. That had been cordoned off since last evening. So you can say maybe a return to normalcy a little bit on this downtown area right here, but the church is still roped off. The investigation is still ongoing. There are folks holding signs up, calling for an end to gun violence. And just -- people walking around absolutely stunned that such a thing could happen. PERINO: All right, Rich, thank you so much for joining us and we'll be back to you. Let's go now to Fox News Correspondent Joel Waldman. Joel, where are you? JOEL WALDMAN, FOX NEWS CORRESPONDENT: Dana, we're out here on the corner of Calhoun street right outside of the entrance to the church, about a half block or so away. And interestingly, it's been less than 24 hours since this mass shooting occurred. And already, you're seeing people sort of gather out here, different sorts of social activists. I can tell you first hand, I just saw Reverend Al Sharpton appear on scene here. And now we're joined by another social activist, his name is Jack Logan and he runs a group which he's wearing on his shirt here, says put down the guns now, young people. And Jack, why this organization? JACK LOGAN, SOCIAL ACTIVIST: Well, we started in 2010 due to two teens committing heinous crimes in Spartanburg County involving gun violence. WALDMAN: So it's gun violence in South Carolina, and then of course, you hear and see what happens last night. And what prompts you to drive the four hours to come down here? LOGAN: When I heard about the mass shooting of nine people, I could not lay down in my bed and rest, knowing that some young man who had just got a gun committed this heinous crime. That led me to drive down. WALDMAN: Does it sting even more so knowing now that the Department of Justice is investigating this as a hate crime? LOGAN: Right, it hurts knowing that anyone that would be prejudiced toward another person's skin or color. WALDMAN: And if you could speak to the shooter in this case right now, what would you say to this person? Would you forgive him? LOGAN: I can forgive him because I love the Lord. But at the same time, I want him prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. WALDMAN: And I want it -- Dana, I know you want to ask him some questions, but lastly, President Obama came out today, he said he was heartbroken. But any sort of took the opportunity to talk about gun violence. Do you feel that was perhaps bad timing or premature? LOGAN: I feel that was bad timing because he should not -- he had plenty of time to talk about gun violence with all the gun violence going on across America. I just want to see gun violence gun controls here in America. WALDMAN: Jack -- (CROSSTALK) PERINO: Turn it over to Eric Bolling. WALDMAN: Dana. ERIC BOLLING, CO-HOST: Joel, if you could hold that guy for one second. WALDMAN: Sure. BOLLING: This gentleman thinks it was too early for President Obama to make a comment on gun violence in America. Politicizing the tragedy, yet he's there with a t-shirt doing the exact same thing. Does he feel it that there's a time and a place for his cause as well? WALDMAN: So Eric Bolling, one of the hosts of The Five wants to know if it's sort of hypocritical on your part. You're wearing a shirt that says put down the guns now, sort of making a political statement on the heels of this catastrophic event. Do you feel you are in the right place here by promoting this? LOGAN: Yes because what we do, we hear adults involved in gun violence. We don't want young people, children and teens to copycat from an adult. We do that to prevent gun violence and we do it with an adult participate in gun violence. WALDMAN: So you're afraid of a copycat killer coming out of the. LOGAN: Right. WALDMAN: Right now and that's why you feel that sense of urgency. LOGAN: That's right. That's right. WALDMAN: Eric, there's your answer on that one. BOLLING: And it's a darn good answer. I accept that completely. PERINO: All right, Kimberly? GUILFOYLE: Yeah. So are we hearing anything else about the investigation, whether or not anybody might have been? I guess an influence on this young man, particularly getting him involved perhaps, with some groups or something, any kind of social media backing? Things like that that can explain the motive here? WALDMAN: Well, right now the motive is really not clear. And as you know, the suspected shooter is still in North Carolina, unclear, whether he's going to come here. Authorities, both federal and local, however, are looking into white extremist groups, and thus far from what we have heard. His name is not coming up on any of these databases, but obviously it is very, very early in the investigation, again, less than 24 hours. So a motive still not exactly known, although, obviously they are investigating this as a hate crime. And he reportedly said some very inflammatory racial things before opening fire. So obviously, investigators. GUILFOYLE: Right. WALDMAN: Will look very. GUILFOYLE: One of the survivors, yeah. WALDMAN: Closely at all of that, guys. PERINO: Greg, if you'll take a look at this, we're gonna show a picture here, Joel. We have a shot of the plane that is bringing Roof back to South Carolina. Greg, did you have a question for Joel? GUTFELD: Yeah, I was curious about the bomb threat. Was the -- have they figured out who made the bomb threat? Was that just somebody or was it the same guy? WALDMAN: You know we have not heard how that was related to the entire situation. Obviously, that bomb threat was made after the shooting, as I recollect, but no official word yet today, whether that was connected or not to Dylann Storm Roof. No word yet, Greg. GUTFELD: Thanks. PERINO: All right. And the last question to Juan. WILLIAMS: You know I was curious about the idea of where he got the gun from. What I have read is that he got the gun as a gift from an uncle when he turned 21. Is that right? GUILFOYLE: Dad. GUTFELD: Dad. GUILFOYLE: Dad. WILLIAMS: Dad? OK, I have uncle. GUTFELD: The uncle reported it. I think the uncle reported that his dad gave it to him. WILLIAMS: I see. OK, so is that right? WALDMAN: And that is what we are hearing here. It was given to him. It was a semi-automatic handgun from what we are being told and was given by a family member, presumed to be his father. Obviously, you know we don't know who this father is, but he will be regretting that decision in the coming days. PERINO: All right, Joel, thank you so much. And just before we go to break, I want to just clarify -- we believe that it's the plane that Roof is on, that he'll be taken from North Carolina as he's extradited back to South Carolina to face his punishment and the trial. All right, thanks so much, Joel, much more to come on the Charleston church shooting throughout the hour. Next, what we know so far about the victims of this tragedy. Please stay tuned. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This not happen at a club or a bar, church in a bible study, and that's your faith. That's all we have is our faith. You tell people to go to -- be good to work, do right, go to church, these people were in church. (END VIDEO CLIP) BOLLING: Welcome back to our continuing coverage of the massacre in South Carolina. Now, you just heard from one of the community members in Charleston. It's impossible to make sense of this twisted tragedy. These victims were in church praying to God when the gunman opened fire. Nine people are dead, six females, three males, ranging in age from 26 to 87. Among them, the pastor of the Emanuel AME church, who's also a state senator named Clementa Pinckney, he was 41-years-old. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) MARLON KIMPSON, SOUTH CAROLINA STATE SENATOR: He was a giant. Senator Pinckney was a legend. He was the moral compass of the state senate. REV. DR. NORVEL GOFF, AFRICAN METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH: He was a bridge builder. He was a family man, leaves behind in a senseless act by one shooter at the moment, a wife and two young daughters. And we solicit to your prayers and the prayers of the nation of -- for the family of Reverend Senator Pinckney and the other eight victims of this senseless act. (END VIDEO CLIP) BOLLING: All right, we want to go to Geraldo Rivera, who just made his way to Charleston. Geraldo, can you set the scene for us. And specifically, I believe -- maybe about an hour or so, there was a massive group that gathered in support of the church. GERALDO RIVERA, FOX NEWS: They gathered, Eric, in grief, in sorrow. There is a quiet rage here about this awful act, but you know there is a racial divide in this country that has been exposed. Yet again, those nine people, we can dance around it, but they're dead because they're black. They're dead because a psycho, a sociopath, was so low down and dirty, that he ingratiated himself into that parish. You know, and these stories, generally speaking, as the story unfolds, facts change and people say, oh, this is what I thought is different than what I am finding out. In this story, which I've been reporting since 10 o'clock this morning, it has been remarkably consistent. This young man, this 21-year-old man with this newly obtained .45 went into that church, pretended to be a worshipper with those poor people in there. And then after an hour, cold-bloodedly took out the deadly weapon and started pumping rounds into these people. Many of them, senior citizens, some of the best people in this community, small wonder it is torn asunder driving in form the airport. The radio stations, the talk radio stations talking about the horror of this deed. How this person could sit among them, look them in the eye, presumably even exchange conversation with them in the setting before the altar devoted to peace and love and then whip out that weapon and shoot them down because of their race. Eric, this is a horrible, horrible crime committed by a racist sociopath, a racist James Holmes, if I may. What he did was to desecrate that place of worship and to claim some of the most treasured lives in this now fractured community, Eric. BOLLING: Geraldo -- Dana has a question. PERINO: Geraldo, as you know, Charleston is also referred to as the holy city because there are so many different types of churches there and synagogues and mosques. And that's how the city was really founded. It was a place where you could go and all faiths were welcome. I'm just curious. I know you've just gotten there, but I do wonder about the ability for a community to have that interfaith juncture and to be able to try to explain to especially the children that evil is what this was -- the root cause of. RIVERA: Dana, that's a wonderful, wonderful thought and a wonderful statement. And let me say that Charleston will handle this in its grief in a way that is respectful, in a way that does honor to this ancient town and to this community and to all its citizens. It is a place of faith. It is also there, Dana, and we can never lose sight of it, a place with a deep history in the oppression of black people. Slavery was -- there was a slave market here. I've toured it many times. That church sits on the sacred soil of a slave uprising in the beginning of the 19th century where several dozen, as I recall, slaves rose up against their oppressors only to be executed. So this -- there is history here. Martin Luther King spoke in that church. Coretta Scott King protested in the civil rights movement in that church. This is the second oldest AME church in North America. It is the oldest in the south. This is -- you know unfortunately, sadly, something that does not happen in a vacuum. There was talk and my black driver and I talking about it that the KKK was giving out pamphlets nearby, just a week ago. I am curious how this 21-year-old -- we will trace how he got that .45 and it's indeed, after being arrested on meth and cocaine charges and some of the other offenses he has been accused of, his dad then gave him for his 21st birthday, regardless of his obviously troubled period that he was going through, this .45. We'll get to that. But was he acting spontaneously? I think that that is the most intriguing question to answer. Who motivated, what motivated, why did he choose that church? Obviously, he knew that there was a prayer meeting. He didn't just -- I am assuming, the evidence suggests, we don't know for sure. I am assuming he didn't just stumble on that prayer meeting, that he knew something was going on, and then to enter from that rear door and then sit amongst the parishioners, and then, to leave one of the adults alive to tell his terrible, filthy tale. I think that this is something that everyone, all of us, should -- and I don't want to sound like -- you know, like a long-haired civil rights activist lawyer, like I was back in the 60s. But this is a time where everyone should declare. You know, there I say it, they we're all members of the AME church, the mother Emanuel Church that we stand together. Certainly, I am sure Charleston will do that. The city will react maturely, but it is deeply, grievously wounded by the fact that this 21-year-old, barely 21-year-old, could perpetrate such terrible violence and then spew that racial hatred that I'm doing this because you're raping our women. You know please, where does this come from? Where does this hatred come from? You know, this is something that all of us, regardless of political persuasion have to stand united against. WILLIAMS: Well, Geraldo, that's what I wanted to get at with you, was that we know from Facebook, from a Facebook picture he had a jacket with the Rhodesian flag, with the South African flag on it. And so the question would be, is this part of some larger organization? Is there some underground in this area? Or is it part of some national movement? I think people especially some people in the black community might say this is a form of domestic terrorism. RIVERA: I agree that this is terrorism by the way. I think that this is an act -- this is not only a race mass murder, but this is also an act of domestic terrorism. I think that if we keep it in the area under the umbrella of hatred that makes it a capital offense in the federal system. He will certainly -- I am sure, the South Carolina courts do not mess around. He will be facing the death penalty, of that I have no doubt. But Juan, you mentioned the emblems that he wore. There is no mistaking the message that he sought to project. There is no ambiguity about wearing the flag of racist, South Africa, the flag of apartheid, Rhodesia. These are statements of white supremacy. These are statements that enable someone filled with this hatred to perpetrate terrible violence in the name of racial purity, of purging. These are the worst memories that have been regurgitated, regurgitated by this terrible, terrible deed. And I am so keen on investigating what motivated him. Was there a person with more age? Was there a group? Did they plot? Did they time this attack on that church for maximum impact? His car was there at the ready. What if there wasn't that surveillance camera outside that church with the license plate. So clearly, visible that they could trace and put a name because he was involved in the criminal system, to get a name to that vehicle, then put out the all points bullets and the bolo, that alerted the good citizens of Shelby, North Carolina to his presence in their community. BOLLING: Geraldo, I want to get Kimberly in here. She has a question. GUILFOYLE: Yeah. Geraldo, I think you bring up an important point of it. And obviously, we kind -- we know what this is and its horrific evil and violence that erupted in a house of worship, which is really just unthinkable. However, as a former prosecutor, I'm very focused on the investigation, the tentacles of this. Where did this get created? What is the genesis in this young man and who was he working with. I think that's so important in terms of preventing things like this in the future. RIVERA: I so agree, Kimberly. We have to find out the root of this particular evil. Was this a young man like James Holmes or like Adam Lanza in Newtown, Connecticut, who was self-starting or was he someone malevolently manipulated by a real professional hate monger, Kimberly. That of course will remain to be seen with the investigation. BOLLING: All right, Geraldo, some great reporting. Thank you very much. And we're gonna be back to Geraldo later on the show. President Obama delivered remarks on the tragedy earlier and brought up the issue of gun control during his statement, our reaction to that, when The Five returns. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This is not a time to be divisive. This is a time for to us come together. And we're hoping that we can keep cooler heads and we stay together. Because we just don't want this thing to erupt and then Charleston become something else. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUTFELD: Amen. After an unspeakable crime, a number of human natural responses follow. Most people grieve, horror-stricken over this cowardly deed. Some make sense through degrees of connection: "Oh, my, I was just in Charleston last week" or "I have a friend who lives near there." Then there are those who champion a point. One calls for stricter gun control and then another will say the opposite. Often the most certain of these voices are farthest from the pain, so it's easier to pontificate. See Twitter. But let's face it: You wouldn't offer commentary to a grieving mother or son, so why do it there or Facebook or anywhere? We know horrors like this must be discussed and if evil didn't generate conversations, some may never ever take place. However, even as a paid loudmouth like I am, I say pipe down. Put off the pointing of fingers. We can unite, even temporarily, under universal sorrow and sympathy and then get back to the shouting later. My theory is this: The more horrific the crime, the smaller the perpetrator. You can address the enormity of the act without attributing the magnitude to the ghoul involved. Why give a tiny speck of dirt the attention that it craves? Never award infamy with more infamy. We can't let a fiend test our fabric. Instead, focus on those who are suffering and offer comfort when you can; and hope that the fiend, now captured, is rendered incapable of such cowardice again. Let's go to somebody who did make it kind of political, Hillary. This was her comment. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HILLARY CLINTON (D), PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: We have to face hard truths about race, violence, guns, and division. How many people do we need to see cut down before we act? (END VIDEO CLIP) GUTFELD: What do you make of it, Kimberly? She hit all -- she said race, guns, violence, division. This was definitely racially motivated. A gun was involved. There was violence. GUILFOYLE: We know that. GUTFELD: We know that. GUILFOYLE: We know that. Thanks for stating the obvious. We know this is a horrific tragedy, and we wish that we could make it go away in every way possible. The problem is that we have to say was this gun obtained legally, right? It was maybe not a good idea. We have to know more about the investigation. But evil exists. People who want to do harm to others exist. So you have to understand that and deal with it in that context, in that frame of mind. You can't say ban all guns. Therefore nothing bad will ever happen. There's something at the root of this. And this is a young man who was obviously very disturbed, an evil person. And let's see who, in fact, had some kind of influence. Where did this come from? That's what I think we should be focusing on and helping the community heal. GUTFELD: I think he could be purely evil and purely racist. GUILFOYLE: Correct. GUTFELD: It goes together. Let's roll some tape of President Obama reacting. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Now is the time for mourning and for healing. But let's be clear. At some point we as a country will have to reckon with the fact that this type of mass violence does not happen in other advanced countries. And at some point it's going to be important for the American people to come to grips with it. And for us to be able to shift how we think about the issue of gun violence collectively. (END VIDEO CLIP) GUTFELD: Juan, I don't doubt for a second his intent. I disagree with his judgment, but I'm not here to debate it. I just think that one side feels that way. Just let it go, right? Because at this time, why bother? WILLIAMS: Well, I understand. In fact, what we heard from a young man that was interviewed earlier was just what you said. So I think people across racial lines will agree on this point, that you know, this is a time for mourning. It's a really sad moment. This is depressing to me. But I got to say from my perspective the country has so many guns. You know, and the president, he's been thwarted. He was thwarted after Newtown. So he's been defeated on this, if it's a matter of politics. But I don't know why you wouldn't point out -- I think the numbers are pretty clear -- that it's in the last five to ten years that we've had most of the mass shootings in the country. BOLLING: I don't think that's accurate. WILLIAMS: I think that's right. BOLLING: I don't think that's accurate at all. Let's not do this. GUTFELD: Yes. BOLLING: Can we just not have this mass shooting gun debate? I mean, bodies are still -- the families are still being notified, for God's sakes. It's not the time. Look, if President Obama wants to politicize it or Hillary Clinton want to politicize it, I guess that's their right. But can we be really, really honest right here right now? A lot of us point the finger at President Obama for not being able to say "Muslim extremists" when something bad happens and it's a Muslim extremist doing it. He refuses to do it. For us not to be able to say this is racially motivated, this is racism, folks. It is. I'm sorry. We have to be able to call it. We have to be fair and balanced about that on both sides of that coin. GUTFELD: Dana. PERINO: I was just going to say I think that for President Obama, when -- I understand where he's coming from when he's talking about other countries. Because I think that he could probably look back and point to almost every season of his presidency whereas he has had to deal with a mass shooting like this. Aurora, California; Newtown, Connecticut. This one. I'm probably forgetting another. But I think that that is where it comes from. And when you are president of the United States or any other leader, like a governor, whoever you might be, you get to choose what you want to decide to talk about. And he's made a choice, and he's entered the debate. So I think that we just have to respect it and either engage in it or move on. GUTFELD: All right. More to come on the shooting in Charleston when "The Five" returns. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) GUILFOYLE: Back now with our continuing coverage of the church massacre in Charleston. We want to go to "Fox & Friends First" host Ainsley Earhardt, who is from South Carolina. And she's down there now with new information -- Ainsley. AINSLEY EARHARDT, FOX NEWS: Hey, Kimberly, when this story was breaking this morning, of course, we came to work with heavy hearts. Heather Childers, my co-anchor and I, are both from the Carolinas. And this really just weighed heavy on us, because it hits very close to home. I lived about two blocks this way on Smith Street when I lived here in college working for the NBC affiliate. This is the church back here with the steeple. And I drove by. And it's hard to believe that someone went in last night and shot nine people dead there. There are flowers outside of that church. This is a very popular corner. You go that way, and you have bars and restaurants. This is Meeting Street right here. And I was talking to someone earlier who said they didn't want to be on camera, but they were supposed to be in church with their cousin that night, last night. And they had to work last night, working on a naval helicopter that's going to be used in one of the naval ceremonies coming up on Monday. Their boss asked them to stay late. He felt guilty because he was supposed to be sitting next to his cousin in church when his cousin was shot and killed last night. We're learning so much about this investigation. My sources in Columbia say they wanted to learn more about this suspect, so they traced him back to Columbia, which is where he grew up, which is where I grew up, as well. Grew up in the Lexington 1 school district. He went to ninth grade, went through ninth grade and had to repeat ninth grade and dropped out in the month of February. So never finished ninth grade. They searched his dad's home. They didn't find anything suspicious. Then they went to his house on the other side of Columbia. And they did find evidence that this was a hate crime. They found skinhead paraphernalia in his house, and they found videos that are anti-African-American. We're not sure why he traveled two hours here to Charleston last night after he was at his house yesterday, officers are telling me. But we do know that the Reverend Pinckney, who was the reverend at this church, the victim, the senator that was killed, we do know that he was instrumental in getting those body cameras put on police officers after the Walter Scott trial and -- or after the Walter Scott shooting. And he was very instrumental in getting those body cameras. That was passed. They're now mandatory for officers here. And that just passed last week. I do want to bring in one of his good friends who served in the legislature with him. This is Representative Peter McCoy. Thanks for being with us, Peter. What did you know about him? I know you were good friends. REP. PETER MCCOY, SOUTH CAROLINA STATE REPRESENTATIVE: We were, Ainsley, and I appreciate you having me here. And I want, first of all, for everybody to know that Charleston is a city of hospitality and a city of love. EARHARDT: Yes. MCCOY: And we're strong and we're confident that that love will overcome the evil that happened last night. Senator -- Senator Pinckney was -- is a man that was larger than life. As a young legislator, he helped guide me when I was up there, when I first came up there; helped me learn how to write bills, to get bills passed. He had a great, big booming voice. He didn't speak that often, but when he did speak, everybody listened. He had -- just a man of utmost respect. He's an icon here in this city. We will definitely miss him so much. EARHARDT: A man of character. He got along with everyone from what I understand. MCCOY: He absolutely did. Republican or Democrat, he was a friend across the aisle. A friend to everybody that he represented. And we're definitely going to miss him so much. EARHARDT: Yes. Leaves behind two children and a wife here in Charleston. MCCOY: He does. He does leave behind two children. And he's only 41 years old. EARHARDT: I know, I know. MCCOY: Was called to service in the legislature at an early age. EARHARDT: Twenty-eight years old. MCCOY: Twenty-three. EARHARDT: Twenty-three! MCCOY: Went in at 23. A young age. EARHARDT: Younger than I thought. Wow. Very well-loved here in the Charleston community. This community is learning to forgive and coming together. There will be a vigil tomorrow night. We'll be here reporting on it all night and into tomorrow. Back to you guys. GUILFOYLE: All right. Thank you, Ainsley. An incredible man by all accounts. (CROSSTALK) GUILFOYLE: ... his family. "The Five" returns in just a moment. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) WILLIAMS: Welcome back to "The Five." Before we go back to Geraldo, who's in Charleston, as you know, let me just tell you something about this church, this Emanuel Church. I wrote a book about the black religious experience in America and had an opportunity to go visit this church. And so the reason I went is because Denmark Vesey, who was a freed slave back in the early 1800s, led a slave revolt out of this church. He's one of the founders of this church. So there's a deep sense of black history invested in this church. And as you heard earlier, Dr. King has spoken at this church. We've seen people come and organize out of Charleston in terms of becoming a more active black community. Geraldo, as you are there right now trying to deal with the aftermath of the recent shooting in South Carolina, deal with the aftermath of the history -- remember the girls who were bombed in the 16th Street Baptist church in Birmingham; recently in Wisconsin a group of Sikhs at a church again attacked. I think six people died in that attack. What do you think about the idea that this is also a religious -- an attack on Christians, Geraldo? Is that really scurrilous? Is that a diversion from the racial angle? RIVERA: Well, I think that it's part of the story. Why? Because, in my view, the fact that these people were there at a Bible study volunteering their time, a man who's a state senator, as well as a guide and minister, folks who work hard, some elderly, all there gathered, the most gentle souls, Juan. You know, the lambs who were led to a slaughter, as it turns out. And listening to the recitation, your accurate and poignant recitation of the racial history of violence here in this town, I, too -- the first thing I thought of when this story broke and I was live on the radio as it was -- as it was unfolding, was of 1963, was of those four little black girls walking to that church only to be -- to be blown to pieces by hateful people motivated by racist ugliness that knows no bounds. Now I think it really is important. You mentioned Walter Scott. Let me just briefly interrupt myself. The Walter Scott shooting was the kind of event that could have led to an incendiary, you know, consequence with people being, you know, outraged and turning that rage, as they did in Baltimore, into violence. But in the situation with Walter Scott, which happened in nearby North Charleston, which is a different town, a different city than Charleston, the way the authorities responded so quickly, indicting that officer, who remains behind bars -- Slager, I believe his name is. Remains behind bars now, charged with murder, now indicted. This is a mature place now where racial animus has not -- we can't be naive; it has not disappeared. But people have learned to live together in Charleston. They have learned to take the history that you so elegantly remind us of and make it as a communal strength to go forward together. They will go forward from this act. But what happened here, make no mistake about it. This is part of a historic -- this is another event on a long chain of sorry melancholy racial history. WILLIAMS: You're right -- Greg. GUTFELD: Yes. To your point, was it religiously motivated? I think it was own religiously motivated because this fiend knew that it was an African church, so there would be blacks there. And it's a church, and they would most likely be unarmed. So it was sitting ducks. And it was the ducks that he wanted. I want to ask Geraldo, when we see acts of racism like this, there's a tendency to say that this is representative of a racist society. I would posit that the revulsion, the national heavy revulsion towards this act represents feelings on race. Does that make sense? RIVERA: I -- I think that -- well, I mentioned that I've been listening to local talk radio, the white stations, talk radio. And they tend to be conservative. Let's face it. They tend to be hard right. But they are all -- there's a couple of things going on. There is anger. There is also a deep feeling of embarrassment. How dare this person do that? How dare this person make us look like, you know, Confederate flag-waving retrogrades who want to put black people back in their places? I think that Charleston will respond well to this, Greg. And that church, it has seen too much bloodshed. That's for sure. WILLIAMS: Geraldo, thank you so much. We appreciate you being there, taking that time. And good reporting. Geraldo, we appreciate it. Final thoughts coming up next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) PERINO: All right. Some final thoughts in our remaining moments. I just wanted to mention Juan's book, obviously, that is one you should definitely check out. Another one, if you like to read novels and historical fiction, is called "The Invention of Wings" by Sue Monk Kidd. She actually is from Charleston. It's about the Grimke sisters, who helped end slavery. I commend that novel to you as well. Take it around the table. Greg, start with you. GUTFELD: Just a question, and someone can send this to me. Do classifications of crime have any effect in reducing incidents? I wonder if something's a hate crime or a terror crime or any charge at our disposal, does it have effect on anyone to reconsider a crime like this? PERINO: You mean deterrence? GUTFELD: Yes, I don't think you -- a fiend is (UNINTELLIGIBLE). GUILFOYLE: Same question exists about the death penalty. People ask, does it operate as a deterrent to dissuade future behavior? Good question. PERINO: You want to end on a note? GUILFOYLE: I just want to say that I'm really just thinking and praying about the families and the victims. And I just -- I want to wake up one day where we get past the horrible acts of evil and violence like this. PERINO: Eric. BOLLING: So can you throw a picture of this guy up, Mr. Roof? Just take a quick picture there. You can tell a lot about a person by looking into their eyes. Look at that guy. For me I saw that picture, and I saw evil in those eyes. It scares me. I don't know what it is. Maybe it's drugs or just a sheer hatred for people. But... GUILFOYLE: He went terribly wrong. PERINO: We only have a few seconds left. WILLIAMS: I just -- there's an A.P. story saying that he was concerned about the shootings, Trayvon Martin, Ferguson. I think we all have to take some care in the way that we present those issues. Because you know, you don't want to have people resort to this kind of action. PERINO: All right. Our prayers for the victims of this tragedy and their loved ones. Stay tuned for continuing coverage of the Charleston church shooting. That is it for us. Content and Programming Copyright 2015 Fox News Network, LLC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2015 Roll Call, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of Roll Call. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content."
"Parents disavow California synagogue suspect, say son is part of ‘history of evil’ April 29, 2019 4:16pm EDT  Synagogue shooting witness describes yelling and running at gunman Video Synagogue shooting witness describes yelling and running at gunman  Oscar Stewart, a veteran and member of the California synagogue targeted by the shooter, says the alleged gunman dropped his rifle and ran when approached; William La Jeunesse reports. The family of the 19-year-old man suspected of attacking a Southern California synagogue over the weekend disavowed their son Monday and offered condolences to the victims.  John T. Earnest’s parents said they raised him and his five siblings in a family, faith and community that rejected hate.  “Our son’s actions were informed by people we do not know, and ideas we do not hold,” the parents said in a statement, which did not include their names.  The couple added that they are shocked and saddened that Earnest “is now part of the history of evil that has been perpetrated on Jewish people for centuries.”  “How our son was attracted to such darkness is a terrifying mystery to us, though we are confident that law enforcement will uncover many details of the path that he took to this evil and despicable act,” the statement said.  Earll Pott, a family attorney who issued the statement, said the parents will not provide a legal defense for their son, who will likely be represented by a public defender.  POLITICIANS REACT TO CALIFORNIA SYNAGOGUE SHOOTING: 'NO ONE SHOULD EVER FEAR GOING TO THEIR PLACE OF WORSHIP'  Authorities say Earnest burst into the Chabad of Poway near San Diego on the last day of Passover, a major Jewish holiday that celebrates freedom, and opened fire with an assault-style rifle.  About 100 congregants were worshipping when the gunman killed Lori Kaye, 60, and wounded the synagogue’s rabbi, Yishoel Goldstein; 8-year-old Noya Dahan; and her uncle Almog Peretz.  The FBI said Monday that it had received tips about a threatening social media post approximately five minutes before Saturday's attack. The tips to an FBI website and hotline included a link to the anonymous post but did not offer specific information about its author or the location of the threat. The bureau said Monday that employees immediately tried to determine who wrote the post, but the shooting occurred before they could establish his identity.  One of the tipsters told The Associated Press that he called the FBI tip line at 11:15 a.m. Saturday, approximately 15 minutes before the shooting took place, because the post linked to a manifesto that said the author was responsible for a mosque arson in the city of Escondido last month. He says he found online that had the mosque attack had happened and feared the new threat was real.  The tipster, who refused to provide his name because of security concerns, said the call with the FBI lasted four or five minutes and the shooting happened soon after. He described the FBI as quick and professional and said he doesn't know what the bureau could have done.  CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP  Earnest’s parents, who are cooperating with investigators, said their sadness “pales in comparison to the grief and anguish our son has caused for so many innocent people.”  The Associated Press contributed to this report."
"Timeline of events leading up to and including killings of 6 in chaotic Santa Barbara rampage Associated PressLOS ANGELES – b07de249- FILE- This undated file photo from the California Department of Motor Vehicles shows the driver license photo of Elliot Rodger, 22, who went on a murderous rampage Friday, May 23, 2014. Authorities concluded that Rodger who killed six people and injured 13 others near the University of California, Santa Barbara, last year acted alone. The Sheriff's Office released a report Thursday, Feb. 19, 2015, on its eight-month investigation into the massacre. (AP Photo/California DMV, File) (The Associated Press) The Santa Barbara sheriff released a 64-page report Thursday detailing the May 23 rampage by Elliot Rodger that killed six University of California, Santa Barbara students and injured 14 others.  Here's a timeline of key events from the report and his manifesto:  Dec. 4, 2012 — Rodger purchases the first of three 9 mm semi-automatic handguns he had with him during the attack.  June 3, 2013 — Rodger wrote in his diary about "The Day of Retribution" when he would get revenge on women who spurned him and "kill every single young couple at my college or in Isla Vista."  Jan. 15, 2014 — Rodger placed housemate, Cheng Hong, under citizen's arrest for allegedly stealing three candles valued at $22.  April 22 — Rodger creates "My Twisted World." Intended as an autobiography, the 137-page manifesto spelled out his hatred for women and described in detail the plot he planned to carry out.  April 24 — Originally planned as the date of his rampage, Rodger writes in his manifesto that he woke up with a cold and decided to postpone his plan to May.  April 30 — Authorities check on Rodger after his family calls police about disturbing YouTube videos. Rodger says in his manifesto that he deceived detectives: "If they had demanded to search my room... That would have ended everything. For a few horrible seconds I thought it was all over."  May 14 — Rodger searches online for news of a knife attack that injured six people in the Chinese city of Guangzhou.  May 22 — Rodger uses his iPhone to record his "Retribution" video describing his killing plot that he later posted on YouTube.  May 23 — Rodger types in the search term "quick silent kill with a knife," on his computer. He fatally stabs his two roommates and their friend in his apartment.  May 23 at 7:38 p.m. — He buys a triple vanilla latte at Starbucks.  9:18 p.m. — Rodger emails his manifesto to 34 people, including his parents, friends and mental health providers.  9:27 p.m. — Sheriff's dispatchers receive the first 911 call of shots fired.  9:35 p.m. — A deputy reports that Rodger has been shot. He is found dead in the driver's seat of his BMW with a self-inflicted gunshot to the right side of his head."
"Parliament Hill gunman ID'd as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau Published Oct 22, 2014  •  Last updated Oct 23, 2014  •  2 minute read   Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, pictured in this image tweeted from an ISIS social media account, has been identified as the shooter of a soldier standing guard at the National War Memorial in Ottawa, Oct. 22, 2014. (Twitter/Handout/QMI Agency) Article content  OTTAWA Who is Michael Zehaf-Bibeau? Was he acting alone? And what was his motive?  The man, reportedly born in 1982, was named as the gunman behind the deadly attacks on Parliament Hill on Wednesday.  He was killed in a gunfight in the hallways of Parliament.  Two U.S. officials told Reuters Zehaf-Bibeau was Canadian born and a convert to Islam. He was also flagged as an "at-risk" traveller.  One official said he was from Quebec, where he had faced drug charges in 2004.  Police confirm he was the only attacker in the armed assault that killed reservist Cpl. Nathan Cirillo, 24, and wounded others.  [MOBILE USERS: CLICK HERE TO WATCH RAW FOOTAGE]    Several witnesses described seeing a man jump from a Toyota Corolla at 9:52 a.m. and run towards the Centre Block.  They said he was dressed in dark blue and black, with a scarf wrapped around his face, carrying a shotgun or some other type of long gun.  A Twitter account associated with terror group the Islamic State (ISIS) tweeted out a photo they identified as the Ottawa shooter - a young man with long, dark hair holding a long gun. His face is covered with the black and white scarf worn by Palestinians.  That Twitter account was apparently followed by Martin "Ahmed" Rouleau, another Canadian-born convert to Islam who on Monday ran his car into two Canadian Forces members, killing one. Rouleau was killed by police following a chase.  Montreal-based reporter Domenic Fazioli reported that Zehaf-Bibeau's name appears three times in Montreal's court database. Fazioli reported the suspect was arrested five times, three times for drug possession (marijuana and PCP) and twice for breaching parole conditions.  The name also appears in Vancouver's court database. A man going by that name was charged with a Dec. 16, 2011, Vancouver robbery but pleaded guilty Feb. 22, 2012, to a lesser charge of uttering threats and sentenced to one day in jail and a $100 victim surcharge.  "I am not able to confirm that this is the same person responsible for the events in Ottawa," Const. Brian Montague said. "Confirmation on suspect identity and information would have to come from the Ottawa Police Service or the RCMP.  "The Vancouver Police Department, along with the BC RCMP, are working together to assist an Ottawa City Police and RCMP National Security investigation. Due to the ongoing investigation, there is little information we can share at this time."  - with files from Reuters  Mobile users, click here for updates  Share this article in your social network"
"Mother Jones: 'Right-Wing Extremism' Killed More Since 9/11 Than Islamic Terror Ben Shapiro25 Apr 2013 On Wednesday, Mother Jones ran an article making a shocking claim: more Americans have been killed by conservative terrorists than by Islamic terrorists since September 11, 2001. “While America has been fixated on the threat of Islamic terrorism for more than a decade, all but a few domestic terror plots have failed,” the article explained. “Between September 11, 2001, and the end of 2012, there were no successful bomb plots by jihadist terrorists in the United States …. [R]ight-wing extremists killed 29 people during those 11 years.”  But is it true?  The Mother Jones piece is based on a study by the New America Foundation and Syracuse University’s Maxwell School. But that study routinely labels non-right-wing murderers right-wingers, and labels basic crimes involving murder “terrorist attacks.”  Here is their complete list of “rightwing terrorist attacks,” with number of killed in parentheses:  Christopher and Wade Lay (1): In May 2004, Christopher and Wade Lay shot and murdered a security guard during a bank robbery. The son-and-father criminal team said they wanted to steal the money to buy arms to fight the government thanks to federal action at Waco in 1993 and Ruby Ridge in 1992. This is conspiratorial nonsense, not right-wing extremism. It is also murder, not terrorism, in the technical definition – it was not violence aimed at civilians to achieve a political purpose. Jim David Adkisson (2): Adkisson shot up a church in Knoxville, Tennessee  in 2008 after he was unable to get a job, opening fire on children performing a musical. In a four-page letter outside the church, Adkisson “repeatedly included disgust for what he perceived to be the liberals in our country,” according to local authorities. He had also recently lost his public benefits, and his wife was a former member of the church. Local authorities stated, “That might have been a trigger.” The motivation is at best split politically. Keith Luke (2): A white supremacist broke into an apartment, raped a woman, and shot two more people in 2009. He planned to attack a Jewish synagogue. His motive: killing “nonwhite people.” That is not right-wing. That is white supremacist. But the left always lumps in neo-Nazi types with the right, despite the fact that the Nazi movement was left-wing in orientation. Scott Roeder (1): Roeder assassinated Dr. George Tiller, an abortionist, thanks to his own anti-abortion motives in 2009. Again, this is an assassination, not a terrorist attack. James Von Brunn (1): Von Brunn shot a security guard at the US Holocaust Memorial in Washington, D.C. in June 2009. He was a white supremacist and Holocaust denier. He was not a right-winger. Robert Andrew Poplawski (3): Poplawski got into a fight with his mother over a dog urinating in their home in 2009. He opened fire on Pittsburgh police officers, killing three. He was an anti-Semite and feared a gun ban by Barack Obama. Again, this was not a terrorist attack. Joshua Cartwright (2): Cartwright started a fight with his wife over the location of his Clearasil in 2009. His rampage didn’t stop until after he had killed two sheriff’s deputies. Because Cartwright was described by his wife as conspiratorial and anti-Obama, this was labeled a right-wing terrorist attack. It wasn’t a terrorist attack, and it evidences no motivation based on politics. ShawnaForde, Jason Eugene Bush, Albert Robert Gaxiola (2): Raymond Franklin Peake (1): Peake, a prison guard, shot a lawyer to death at a gun range so he could steal his gun for use to overthrow the US government in 2010. Again, this was a robbery, not a terrorist attack, and there is no evidence Peake was a right-winger. Andrew Joseph Stack (1): In 2009, Stack flew his small plane into the IRS building in Austin Texas, killing an IRS agent. Stack’s suicide note contained rage at the IRS. His suicide note was openly communist: “The communist creed: From each according to his ability, to each according to his need. The capitalist creed: From each according to his gullibility, to each according to his greed.” He railed in that note against George W. Bush. David “Joey” Pedersen and Holly Ann Grigsby (4): The white supremacist couple killed four people in the Pacific Northwest in 2011 because they were minority or had Jewish names. They wanted to target Jewish organizations. There is no evidence they were right-wing. Wade Michael Page (5): Page opened fire at a Sikh mosque in 2012. He was brewing in the culture of Nazi hate music. There is no evidence Page was right-wing. Brian Lyn Smith (2): Smith and his friend Kyle David Joekel were involved in the shooting of two sheriff’s deputies in Louisiana in 2012. Both were members of the sovereign citizens movement. This is the only attack on the list that could legitimately be considered a “right-wing extremist terrorist attack.” Isaac Aguigui, Anthony Peden, Christopher Salmon, Heather Salmon (2): These four killed a former Army compatriot, and formed an anarchist militia group. They allegedly wanted to poison Washington State’s apple crop and blow up a dam. Aguigui was a page at the Republican National Convention in 2008. The killing was a murder, not a terrorist attack. Realistically speaking, then, there were a grand total of 2 killings over the last 12 years by “right-wing extremists.”  The study lists just four Islamic terrorist attacks in that period:  Hesham Mohamed Hadayet (2): He shot two at the El-Al counter at Los Angeles International Airport in 2002. Naveed Afzal Haq (1): He shot up the Jewish Federation building in Seattle, Washington in 2006. Nidal Malik Hasan (13): The perpetrator of the Fort Hood terrorist attack. Abdulhakim Mujahid Muhammad (1): He shot up a Little Rock recruitment office in 2009. The list does not include the Beltway snipers (11 killed, including a 2002 shooting of a Tucson man); Mohammed Ali Alayed, who slashed a Jewish friend’s throat after reportedly undergoing a religious revival; Mohammed Reza Taheri-azar, who used his SUV to attack students (9 injured) at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in revenge for “the deaths of Muslims worldwide”; the list goes on. The list also does not include honor killings (the equivalent to the George Tiller assassination), or random murders involving Muslims (the equivalent of half the items on the “rightwing terrorist attacks” list.  Naturally, the study does not bother to list left-wing terrorists.  The attempt by the left, including Mother Jones, to minimize the threat of Islamic terror inside the United States and to maximize the threat of “right-wing extremism” is all too obvious. By using the label “right-wing extremism” to apply to everything from neo-Nazis to anarchists, the left seeks to smear the right, the same way it smeared the right with the shooting of Gabrielle Giffords.  The truth remains that the Islamist threat in the United States is very real – and that only the dedication of law enforcement has stopped substantially more Islamist attacks. After the Boston Marathon bombings that killed three and wounded well over 170, only a truly philosophically perverse publication would claim that right-wingers are actually more of a threat to public safety than Islamists.  Ben Shapiro is Editor-At-Large of Breitbart News and author of the New York Times bestseller “Bullies: How the Left’s Culture of Fear and Intimidation Silences America” (Threshold Editions, January 8, 2013)."
"HIS ‘SMILEY FACE’ HID THE DARK SOUL OF A MAD BOMBER Susan Edelman IF Luke Helder had taken the path everyone expected, he would have been taking final exams in college last week, and wrapping up classes in his major of industrial design.  Instead, Helder, 21, was escorted to Iowa to face charges he placed homemade pipe bombs in mailboxes across the Midwest, from Illinois to Texas – crude explosives that injured six and shook the heartland.  The amiable, baby-faced junior at the University of Wisconsin-Stout smiled goofily as he was hauled away by FBI agents, leaving family, friends, and the nation wondering how he was capable of such violence.  “He seemed like the all-American boy,” said Katie Markham, who went to high school with Helder in their tiny, “Prairie Home Companion”-like hometown of Pine Island, Minn. “He was friendly. He was smart. He had a lot of good things going for him.”  Markham, daughter of the mayor, and fellow neighbors remember Helder as a mellow, level-headed kid who played football, was a member of the wrestling team, and sang in the choir.  “He never got on anybody’s bad side,” said another former classmate, Wendy Ferguson. “He was liked by everybody and got along with everybody.”  The manhunt for a mad bomber has ended. But the search has begun for an explanation of a nice kid’s bizarre behavior – he mapped out targets with a “happy face” diagram and wrote a ranting manifesto on government control.  One strong possibility is mental illness. “People like this . . . can be very bright and very kind and appear to other people to be normal, while they’re quietly crazy,” said Dr. Harold Bursztajn, a forensic psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School.  Few clues have emerged from Helder’s past. Josh Scott, who worked with Helder in a grocery store while they were in high school, saw a change in his friend when the two met a couple years later at a benefit concert for a public library.  The once clean-cut Helder, then playing guitar in a punk band, Apathy, had let his blond hair grow long and wore a T-shirt touting Nirvana, whose lead singer, Kurt Cobain, killed himself in 1994.  “He had transformed into a grunge rocker, obsessed with Kurt Cobain. He was almost a copy of Cobain,” Scott said.  Sara Brown, who dated Helder for about 18 months until last year, and James Devine, his roommate, both told reporters that he had talked about trying “astral projection,” or out-of-body experiences.  Helder had a run-in with the law last September, when he was charged with having a marijuana smoking device during a loud party at his apartment. He told the officer who busted him that government is “too involved in our lives.”  By late April, two art teachers at the University of Wisconsin-Stout reported that Helder had been absent for three to four weeks. A staff member telephoned Helder, who told her “he just wanted some time off, all was fine, and he would resume classes,” said college spokesman John Enger.  But Helder “seemed nervous,” the staffer reported. “My sense is something strange is going on.”  She was right.  Helder soon took off, telling his roommate he was going to a party. Last weekend, mailbox bombs injured six people in Iowa and Illinois. Helder left a message for Devine to “check the news and act accordingly.”  Then his adoptive dad, Cameron Helder, received his son’s eerie, rambling, manifesto, called “Life On Earth,” postmarked in Omaha. The father finally heard from Helder, who telephoned a friend.  “I may have to blow myself away,” Helder told his alarmed dad.  Devine, his roommate, looked under Helder’s bed and found a stash of nails, paper clips, gunpowder and receipts for pipe casings.  When the FBI caught up with Helder, speeding from cops on Interstate 80 near Reno, Nev., the youth held a shotgun to his head.  When Helder finally surrendered, he politely shook the hand of a sheriff, and seemed as dazzled as a little boy with the agents’ weapons.  “Mom, do you think I’ll go to jail for this?” he asked his mother over the phone. Helder faces a possible life sentence.  Clinton Van Zandt, the former FBI profiler who helped identify Ted Kaczynski as the Unabomber, said of Helder: “He seems to have little or no appreciation for the seriousness of what he has done-like it’s some game or prank.”  But he doubts Helder’s “other side” is a sudden occurrence. That, he said, may have been simmering for years beneath his smiling face."
"Muslim major screamed ‘Allahu Akbar’ before slaughtering 13 at Ft. Hood Andy Soltis  MADNESS: The suspect, psychiatrist Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan (above), was shot. Soldiers carry the wounded, among whom was GI Amber Bahr, 19. A screen capture of a video where Hasan is seen in a convenient store on the morning of the shootings. Fort Hood Attack APcnn MADNESS: The suspect, psychiatrist Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan (above), was shot. Soldiers carry the wounded, among whom was GI Amber Bahr, 19. A screen capture of a video where Hasan is seen in a convenient store on the morning of the shootings. Fort Hood Attack APcnn A screen capture of a video where Hasan is seen in a convenient store on the morning of the shootings. The Army psychiatrist who went on a shooting rampage that left 13 people dead and 31 wounded at a Texas Army base yesterday screamed “Allahu Akbar” before he opened fire, witnesses said.  Maj Nidal Malik Hasan strode into a Fort Hood deployment center, shouting “God is great” in Arabic, before targeting military personnel and warning civilians to get out of the way.  He killed 13 people and wounded 31 others, including Fort Hood police Sgt. Kimberly Munley, who responded to the scene within three minutes of reported gunfire Thursday afternoon. She shot Hasan four times despite being shot herself.  Hasan was seen on a security video in a convenient store around 6:30 a.m. on the day of the shootings, according to CNN. He can be seen wearing a white cap and a long white robe.  Has was upset about his impending deployment overseas, a mission he’d turned against in recent years, relatives said.  Retired Col. Terry Lee, who said he had worked with Hasan, told Fox News he was being sent to Afghanistan.  “We’ve known over the last five years that was probably his worst nightmare,” cousin Nader Hasan said of the deployment.  Hasan had been eyed by the feds recently for demented Internet postings about suicide bombings, officials said.  Officials are investigating whether Hasan was the author of Internet postings that caught their eye about six months ago, discussing suicide bombings and other threats.  In one posting, the author compared Islamic suicide bombers to soldiers who throw themselves on grenades to save their colleagues.  “To say that this soldier committed suicide is inappropriate. Its more appropriate to say he is a brave hero that sacrificed his life for a more noble cause,” the Internet posting said. “Scholars have paralled (sic) this to suicide bombers whose intention, by sacrificing their lives, is to help save Muslims by killing enemy soldiers.”  One official said last night federal search warrants were being drawn up to authorize the seizure of Hasan’s computer.  Born in Arlington, Va., Hasan is a devout Muslim of Palestinian descent who attended Virginia Tech — scene of a 2007 campus massacre.  In recent years, he expressed his opposition to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and had become angry that President Obama hadn’t withdrawn troops from the region.  “He would make comments to other individuals about how we should not be in the war in the first place,” Lee told Fox.  He said Hasan would often make “outlandish” comments.  “He said maybe Muslims should stand up and fight against the aggressor,” Lee said.  “At first, we thought he meant help the armed forces, but apparently, that wasn’t the case.”  Nader Hasan told Fox his cousin, a disaster and trauma specialist, had hired a military lawyer to help him get out of deployment.  “We are shocked and saddened by the terrible events at Fort Hood today,” he said in a statement issued on behalf of their family. “We send the families of the victims our most heartfelt sympathies.”  Texas US Rep. Michael McCaul told the Statesman newspaper Hasan “took a lot of advanced training in shooting” — training he allegedly put to use when he walked in to the installation’s sprawling Soldier Readiness Processing Center at around 1:30 p.m.  Armed with two handguns, one a semiautomatic — none military-issued — he started blasting away at his fellow soldiers, many of whom were GIs undergoing last-minute medical tests and other preparation for shipping out to Afghanistan and Iraq, officials said.  He was able to get off numerous rounds at once, sending soldiers scrambling for cover as their comrades fell around them, officials said.  Officials have not ruled out the possibility some casualties may have been victims of “friendly fire,” shot by authorities amid the mayhem, said a senior U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  “I was confused and just shocked,” said Spc. Jerry Richard, 27, who works at the center but was not on duty during the shooting. “Overseas, you are ready for it. But here, you can’t even defend yourself.”  Soldiers at the base aren’t armed unless they’re in training exercises.  Quick-thinking GIs helped shuffle their injured colleagues out of the main rooms, and tore up their own uniforms to make makeshift bandages.  They also secured a nearby auditorium, where 600 had gathered for a graduation ceremony.  “As horrible as this was, I’m sure it could have been much worse,” base commander Lt. Gen. Robert Cone said last night.  Base and military police responded within minutes, and Hasan was shot by a female officer who was wounded herself, Cone said.  In the confusing aftermath of the attack, there were initial reports Hasan had been killed. But last night, Cone said his death “was not imminent.”  He was reported on a ventilator, in critical but stable condition.  Cone said initially three people were held, and all have been interviewed. Authorities believe, however, that there was a single shooter.  President Obama decried the “horrific outburst of violence,” and said his “prayers are with the wounded and the families of the fallen.”  It’s “difficult enough to lose” soldiers in battles abroad, he said, but “it’s horrifying that they should come under fire at an Army base on American soil.”  The president promised a sweeping investigation of the worst soldier-on-soldier attack ever to take place on US soil.  The attack happened just down the road from one of the worst mass shootings in US history. On Oct. 16, 1991, George Hennard smashed his pickup truck through a Luby’s Cafeteria window in Killeen, Texas, and fired on the lunchtime crowd with a high-powered pistol, killing 22 people.  Hasan was an eight-year veteran who was transferred to Fort Hood after getting a poor review at his previous post, the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, DC.  While an intern at Walter Reed, Hasan had some “difficulties” that required counseling and extra supervision, said Dr. Thomas Grieger, the training director at the time.  Grieger said privacy laws prevented him from going into details, but the problems had to do with Hasan’s interactions with patients.  His cousin said Hasan was taunted by his colleagues after the 9/11 attacks.  While living in Virginia, he was a fixture at the Muslim Community Center in nearby Silver Spring, Md., The Washington Post reported.  He was “very devout,” a former imam there, Faizul Khan, told the paper. He said Hasan attended prayers every day, often in his Army fatigues.  He’d also applied to a matrimonial seminar, where he had problems finding a love match.  “I don’t think he ever had a match because he had too many conditions,” Khan said.  “We never got into details of worldly affairs or politics,” he said of his talks with the officer. “But there was nothing extremist in his questions.”  Covering 339 square miles, Fort Hood is the largest active-duty armored post in the United States. Home to about 52,000 troops as of earlier this year, it is located halfway between Austin and Waco.  The base was locked down after the shootings, and the wounded were rushed by helicopters and ambulances to three hospitals in central Texas.  At least two of the victims were described as being in very serious condition.  There have been other incidents of soldier-on-soldier violence since the Afghan and Iraq wars began, but none this bad.  In 2005, Sgt. Hasan Akbar was convicted and sentenced to death for throwing grenades into troop tents during the early days of the Iraq invasion. Two GIs were killed. Prosecutors said Akbar opposed US troops killing fellow Muslims in the fighting.  Additional reporting by Charles Hurt and Wire Services  andy.soltis@nypost.com"
"POLICE: GUNMAN KILLS GUARD AT D.C. HOLOCAUST MUSEUM Charles Hurt A crazed gunman exchanged fire with security guards today inside the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington — killing one of them and forcing officials to promptly close down the building.  More: Gunman’s History Of Seething Anger  US Park Police Sgt. David Schlosser said the gunman walked into the museum with what he described as a “long gun” at about 1 p.m.  The gunman — later identified by law enforcement sources as 88-year-old James Von Brunn — and a security guard were shot.  The guard, who was identified as Stephen Tyrone Johns, died a few hours later.  Von Brunn remains in critical condition.  Fox News reported that Von Brunn has apparent links to the white supremacist movement.  In 1999, Von Brunn was sentenced to 6 ½ years behind bars for a hate crime, according to records, which did not elaborate on the details of the incident.  “Never, never, never, trust a Jew. Heil Hitler!” Von Brunn wrote on his Web site.  President Obama Wednesday evening released a statement, saying, “I am shocked and saddened by today’s shooting at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. This outrageous act reminds us that we must remain vigilant against anti-Semitism and prejudice in all its forms. No American institution is more important to this effort than the Holocaust Museum, and no act of violence will diminish our determination to honor those who were lost by building a more peaceful and tolerant world.  “Today, we have lost a courageous security guard who stood watch at this place of solemn remembrance. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this painful time.”  The museum, located just off the National Mall near the Washington Monument, is a popular tourist attraction.  The museum normally has heavy security, with guards positioned both inside and outside the sprawling building.  All visitors are required to pass through metal detectors at the entrance and all bags are screened.  Schlosser said SWAT teams were doing a secondary sweep of the building, but they didn’t believe there was another gunman.  Witnesses said they were terrified.  Mark Lippert, of Lasalle, Ill., said he was at the museum when he heard several loud pops and saw several schoolchildren running toward him, three with horrified looks on their faces.  He said when he saw the kid’s faces, he knew someone had been shot.  Sandy Perkins of Massachusetts said her daughter, Abigail, called her shortly after the shooting.  The teen was on a school trip to the museum and told her mother students heard several shots before they were told to leave the building.  Abigail said some of her friends from Holton Richmond Middle School in Danvers, Mass., were very shaken, but all were otherwise fine, Sandy Perkins said.  Linda Elston, who is visiting the museum from Nevada City, Calif., said she was on the lower level of the museum watching a film when she and others were told to evacuate.  “It was totally full of people,” Elston said. “It took us a while to get out.”  Elston said she didn’t hear any shots and didn’t know why there was an evacuation.  The experience left her feeling “a little anxious,” she said."
"The MSM, John Patrick Bedell, and the Gleiwitz Incident Archy Cary5 Mar 2010 The modus operandi of the 1939 “Gleiwitz incident” is a popular tactic of those legacy journalists who, like Frank Rich of the New York Times, distort the facts of an event to fit their pre-determined storyline. Now it’s happening again with regard to J. Patrick Bedell and the Pentagon shooting incident.  The Gleiwitz incident is a matter of historical record, so it’s beyond media spin. Here’s what happened:  On August 31, 1939, German SS soldiers dressed in Polish uniforms and took over a radio station near the German border with Poland. From there they broadcast an anti-German rant in Polish.  330px-Sender_gliwice  To make the ruse convincing, the Germans dressed a dead civilian German named Franciszek Honiok, reputed to be sympathetic to Poland, in a Polish soldier’s uniform and shot up his body to make it look like he was killed in a gun fight. Along with Honiok, they littered the scene with several other bodies of dead prisoners from Dachau concentration camp, also dressed as Polish soldiers.  This was just one of about a score of such incidents meant to incite German sentiment against Poland leading up to a planned German invasion of Poland the next day, September 1, 1939.  Similarly, Rich used words to dress up the murder-suicide of Andrew Joseph Stack III, the Austin pilot who flew into an IRS office, into the act of a Tea Party supporter.  It’ll be harder for Rich to dress up J. Patrick Bedell, shot dead by Pentagon guards, as a rightwing fanatic, although Rich may well be tempted.  Two new-media websites, PajamasMedia and Patterico, have outed Bedell as an anti-Bush, “9/11 Truther.” So it will be a real squeeze for any legacy media journalist to stuff Bedell’s body into a Tea Party uniform. But, invariably, someone will try.  Note: The above reference to the Gleiwitz incident, perpetrated by the National Socialist German Workers’ Party (Nazis), is in no way intended to suggest that either Mr. Rich, or any other legacy media journalist who distorts the facts of an event so as to misrepresent the intentions of the perpetrator, is sympathetic with what were the philosophical beliefs and geo-political aims of the National Socialist German Workers Party. Similar tactics are not necessarily an indication of similar beliefs and worldviews.  [youtube RImW92mrmfw nolink]  On the other hand, the veracity of both information sources — the 1939 German state-controlled media, and a significant portion of the current American mainstream media — is, on occasion, questionable. Propaganda is what it is… propaganda. In any language."
"Discovery Channel Gunman James Jay Lee Was No Terrorist November 27, 2015 3:21pm EST In perilous times, it is wise to know the demons we face.  Some have claimed that James Lee, the gunman and hostage killed by police yesterday at the Discovery Channel building, was a terrorist. They point to his writings about the need to save the planet from global warming and his rage that the Discovery Channel has been airing what he considered frivolous programming, while multiple species on the planet face extinction and others—like ants and squirrels—suffer needlessly.  We would be lucky if the terrorists we really face were as chaotic and easily identifiable as James Lee.  James Lee was a mentally ill, homeless, violent man who made his own brother-in-law fear for his life. Last year, he was arrested outside the Discovery Channel after throwing thousands of dollars up in the air to protest corporate greed. He objected to shows like “Dirty Jobs” and said at trial that he was inspired to save the planet not only by Al Gore, but by the novel “Ishmael,” about a talking gorilla.  Lee also wrote that he objected to all “immigration pollution and the anchor baby filth that follows that.” That doesn’t sound like a very cogent political ideology fueling well-planned acts of terror meant to destabilize the United States government, does it?  Terrorists are evil warriors willing to risk their lives in acts of war designed to topple a government or achieve their well-thought-out and usually intellectually consistent, if horribly misguided, vision of cultural or religious or economic change.  Mentally ill, violent people (and most mentally ill people obviously are not) often express bizarre, delusional beliefs, not infrequently of a religious nature. These delusions can be fueled by schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder and other conditions, and complicated by substance abuse.  Fighting terrorism requires resources to ferret out those with rational plans afoot to achieve their ends. With American values on the line at home and abroad, we face a more aggressive and competent adversary than ever.  Fighting mental illness that leads to violence requires resources to ferret out those who have lost the ability to reason and are incompetent. In these tough times, we will face increasing numbers of such people. We had better deploy each in proper measure at the right times or we will suffer, needlessly.  My guess is that James Lee had become hostage to a psychiatric disorder long before he took hostages. He should have been under enforced psychiatric care—perhaps as an outpatient taking required anti-psychotic medications—right from the moment he stood trial in a court of law last year. His brother-in-law should have been (but I’m not so sure he was) in touch with a psychiatrist at a local E.R. and the local police to report his concerns that Lee could kill someone.  Let’s not trivialize what we are up against in fighting terrorism by using the same label for an ill person trying to save ants and squirrels, prevent immigrants from having babies and stop the Discovery Channel from airing "Dirty Jobs."  Dr. Keith Ablow is a psychiatry correspondent for Fox News Channel and a New York Times bestselling author. His book, “Living the Truth: Transform Your Life Through the Power of Insight and Honesty” has launched a new self-help movement including www.livingthetruth.com. Dr. Ablow can be reached at info@keithablow.com.  Fox Forum is on Twitter. Follow us @fxnopinion."
"SUICIDE CRASH KID’S FAMILY PARTY PLAN Clemente Lisi The evening 15-year-old Charles Bishop crashed a stolen plane into a Tampa skyscraper, he was supposed to go to a party thrown by his grandmother in honor of the completion of his first night flight, a family spokesman said yesterday in Florida.  The celebration-turned-tragedy was one of several details that St. Petersburg lawyer and Bishop family spokeswoman Pamela Campbell revealed yesterday about the student pilot.  Authorities said they found a suicide note in Bishop’s pocket praising terror lord Osama bin Laden and the 19 hijackers responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks.  Police said Bishop – who crashed a Cessna into the Bank of America building Jan. 5 – had warned a friend in an e-mail hours before the flight that he was “going to be on the news.”  Campbell said that Charles’ mother, Julia Bishop, has not seen the suicide note – and dismissed police accusations that he was a pimple-faced loner who didn’t have any friends.  “She had no inkling this was coming,” she said. “Suicide wasn’t anything they would have even imagined.  “He cared about the world his generation was inheriting and took special interest in environmental-impact issues, animal rights and endangered-species laws, and the new world of national politics which impacts all of these issues,” she said.  Campbell refused to discuss the boy’s use of Accutane, an acne drug linked to depression in a number of teenagers."
"Texas man pleads guilty in attempted bombing PLANO, Texas — A man charged with trying to blow up a North Texas natural gas pipeline in 2012 has pleaded guilty to two of the charges he faced at trial.  Anson Chi entered the plea late Monday after the end of the first day of his federal court trial in Plano, Texas. The Dallas Morning News reports Chi pleaded guilty to possessing a destructive device. Chi also pleaded guilty to a charge of using that explosive device maliciously.  Chi’s sentence is left to the discretion of U.S. District Judge Richard Schell.  Chi was arrested in 2012 in Plano, northeast of Dallas, near a small explosion by a natural-gas pipeline. The blast caused minimal damage but critically injured Chi.  Letters show Chi for a time corresponded with Unabomber Ted Kaczynski.  Copyright © 2023 The Washington Times, LLC."
"Christchurch mosque massacre: 49 confirmed dead in shootings 14 Mar 07:04 PM   Focus: The day after the Christchurch shooting Disable Autoplay Cancel Video KEY POINTS: • 49 confirmed dead in 'terrorist' sguhootings at two Christchurch mosques • Seven died at Linwood, 41 at mosque near Hagley Park • Four people initially arrested, including one woman • Man, 28 due in court tomorrow charged with murder • Gunman livestreamed shooting at Al Noor Mosque in chilling 17-min video  Forty-nine people have been killed and 48 more hurt after mass shootings at two Christchurch mosques in the worst terror attack on New Zealand soil.  Nour Tavis said he was in the front row of the Al Noor Mosque in Deans Ave with his friend when the shooting started. At first they did not know what the noise was.  "Then we heard screaming ... everyone panicked," he said. "There was shooting and shooting and shooting ... people were running and all of a sudden you saw them fall."    Focus: Al Noor Mosque survivor speaks Tavis saw someone smash a window and jump out. "It was the only way to escape," he said. "I followed."  As he and others ran for cover the shooting carried on inside the mosque.  Tavis scaled a 1.5m fence and banged on a neighbour's door — desperately hoping someone would answer and take him in to safety. They did.  "We got in there and I could see another man had been shot, I could see blood," he said.  Tavis then tried to go back to the mosque and help the injured. "There were people bleeding to death ... it was terrible."  Tavis' friend lost his wife in the attack.  "When she heard the noise she wanted to go and make sure her husband was safe," he said. "She got the bullet, her husband got away. She was gone, she was no more."    Focus Live: Survivor describes the hero who tried to take down the gunman Queen's message to NZ ... and Donald Trump's  The Queen has sent a message of condolence to New Zealanders: "I have been deeply saddened by the appalling events in Christchurch today. Prince Philip and I send our condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives.  "I also pay tribute to the emergency services and volunteers who are providing support to those who have been injured.  "At this tragic time, my thoughts and prayers are with all New Zealanders."  Britain's House of Commons will also observe a minute's silence at 11am (local time) in memory of those who have been killed and injured in the attacks.  US president Donald Trump also sent a message to the people of New Zealand via Twitter after the terror attack.  "My warmest sympathy and best wishes goes out to the people of New Zealand after the horrible massacre in the Mosques," Trump tweeted.    "49 innocent people have so senselessly died, with so many more seriously injured. The U.S. stands by New Zealand for anything we can do. God bless all!"  Wailing as families wait at hospital  Anxious family and friends are tonight pacing outside Christchurch Hospital, waiting for news of injured loved ones.  Wailing and crying can be heard at intervals, as people learn their friends will not be coming home.  "We just got some very bad news," said Mahdi Zougub, as his friends hugged nearby.  "We think our friend... we think he's gone. There's a lot of emotion."  Zougub, 22, said he was on his way to the Deans Ave mosque when a friend called and told him about the shooting. He wasn't allowed inside.  "I could see dead bodies. Now we are just waiting to hear the story with our missing ones. We just want to go in and find them."  Some of the shooting victims have been released and allowed to go home.  One, with a wound on his hand and another on his leg, said his phone and wallet were in the mosque and he had no way to call a taxi.  "I can't believe it," he kept saying.  "My children... I'm just relieved I didn't take them to prayer today."  Armed police remain stationed outside the hospital.  Canterbury District Health Board chief executive David Meates said it had been a tragic day.  "What we have been dealing with today is 48 gunshot wounds that were presented at Christchurch Hospital. So we have had 12 operating theatres that have been operating since this afternoon and will be continuing through until about midnight."  Patients' gunshot injuries ranged from "really critically injured" through to lesser wounds.  "With the size and scale of the operations we are doing today, many of those will end up having multiple operations over the coming days and weeks due to the nature of the wounds they have got."  Meates said a "mass casualty plan" had been activated: "It is something that we plan for and hope we never have to activate, and we have had to activate that today," he said.  "That involves us pulling in surgeons, nurses, doctors, support staff to enable us to respond, and we start deferring non-critical surgeries."  Meates said there had been over 200 family members on site at the hospital today.  "We have been working really closely with the Muslim community, police and other agencies to make sure we have the appropriate support structures in place."  The hospital would accommodate families who needed to stay there overnight.  Man, 28, charged with murder, due in court on Saturday  Police Commissioner Mike Bush said the shootings were "abhorrent". At the Deans Ave mosque 41 people were killed, while seven had died at the Linwood mosque. A 49th person had died in hospital.  One man, 28, had been charged with murder and was due to appear in Christchurch District Court tomorrow morning.  "Two others remain in custody," Bush said.  "Another person was arrested earlier today however that was not related to these events."  Speaking about the victims Bush said: "Our love and thoughts go out to them and all of their family, all of their friends and all of their loved ones.  "We have staff around the country making sure everyone is safe, including armed offenders at all mosques. Police staff have gone above and beyond to protect people today."  Bush said police recovered a lot of firearms from both the Linwood Avenue and Deans Ave shooting scenes.  None of the four people initially arrested had been on any terrorism watch, including in Australia, the Police Commissioner said.  Bush said he has "no intelligence" on a potential attack on St Patrick's Day threat that has been reported. He was not aware of today's attacks being linked to any other terrorist plots.  Police were not "actively" looking for any of the potential attackers now.  Christchurch police had a force of 1000 staff, and Bush said he would expect "everyone of them" would want to be out on the streets now. Additional officers were being flown to Christchurch from Dunedin and surrounding areas.  PM: 'Unprecedented' terrorist attack  Earlier tonight, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern had said the death toll was 40. She said a further 20 people were seriously injured, while Christchurch Hospital has just confirmed 48 people suffered gunshot wounds.  Ardern said it was an "unprecedented" situation and described it as a terrorist attack.  "It is clear that this can only be described as a terrorist attack. From what we know, it does appear to have been well planned. Two explosive devices attached to suspects' vehicles have been found and they have been disarmed."  Those in custody had not been on any terrorism watch list: "It's not a matter of someone having slipped under the radar," Ardern said.  "There are currently four individuals who have been apprehended but three are connected to this attack and are currently in custody, one of which has publicly stated that they were Australian-born.  "These are people who I would describe as having extremist views that have absolutely no place in New Zealand and in fact have no place in the world.  "While we do not have any reason to believe at this stage that there are other suspects, we are not assuming that at this stage.  Ardern said it was obvious the attacks had been planned for some time. Three people were arrested in relation to the attacks, while one other was arrested separately.  Ardern said she could not give any more detail about the alleged offenders.  An Australian-born suspect had been in New Zealand "a relatively short time".  She said she was asking questions about them, including access to firearms, of her officials.  The National Security Threat Level had been lifted from low to high.  The Defence Force was transporting more police to Christchurch.  Ardern said New Zealand was a place of safety where they raise their families.  "Those values will not and cannot be shaken," she said.  "This is a place where people should feel secure."  David Meates, chief executive of Canterbury District Health Board, said Christchurch Hospital and other health clinics were treating 48 patients for gunshot wounds.  The people shot range from young children to adults and injuries ranged from critical to minor.  Twelve operating theatres were currently in use and many people would need multiple surgeries.  There was sufficient capacity and staff at Christchurch Hospital, Meates said.  Four arrested after massacres at mosques  A gunman opened fire at mosques in Christchurch earlier today. Four people are in custody - three men and one woman.  Police Commissioner Bush said "there have been some absolute acts of bravery" in the arrests of the four attackers.  A number of IEDs that were attached to vehicles in Christchurch have been defused by the Defence Force.  Bush said there were multiple casualties - a "significant" amount.  "This is absolutely tragic. So many people are affected."  Bloodied bandages on the road following a shooting resulting in multiply fatalities and injuries at the Al Noor Mosque in Christchurch. Photo / SNPA Bloodied bandages on the road following a shooting resulting in multiply fatalities and injuries at the Al Noor Mosque in Christchurch. Photo / SNPA "We don't have the identities of those who have died yet because those places are in lockdown."  He said he would not assume there aren't other attackers.  Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison confirmed the gunman was an Australian citizen living in New Zealand.  Morrison said he was "shocked, appalled and outraged," at the attack.  "We stand here and condemn absolutely the attack that occurred today by an extremist, right wing, violent terrorist.  "[He] has taken the lives," he said, before correcting to: "they have stolen the lives in a vicious, murderous attack that has claimed so many New Zealanders.  Morrison said the attack reminds us about the evil that is ever present and would seek to "strike us out at any time."  The lock down of schools throughout Christchurch was lifted at 5.50pm.  When asked if it was true that a person had been arrested wearing wired explosives, Bush said that person had been made safe.  "We're still working through that but we believe there was a claim but that person has been made safe."  Bush said he was aware that footage of the Al Noor Mosque shooting was on social media and police were doing everything they could to get it removed.  People wait outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP People wait outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP "It shouldn't be in the public domain."  Facebook Australia-New Zealand policy director Mia Garlick said the videos have been taken down.  "New Zealand Police alerted us to a video on Facebook shortly after the livestream commenced and we quickly removed both the shooter's Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video."  He said police did not have conclusive information about the motivation behind the shootings.  He would not call it a terrorist attack but said it did not get any more serious in this country.  "We are currently dealing with an unprecedented situation in New Zealand. It's very grave, it's very serious."  One of NZ's darkest days  Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called it "one of New Zealand's darkest days".  A body has been seen lying near Al Noor Mosque in central Christchurch and a second gunman has been seen near Linwood Masjid mosque.  The gunman is believed to be an Australian who has written a manifesto declaring his intentions. In it, he says "it is a terrorist attack."  The Herald has chosen not to report its contents.  Ardern described the event as "extreme and unprecedented violence".  She will be flying to Wellington where she will speak with agents as soon as she lands.  "I'm not currently in a position to confirm the number of deaths or injuries," Ardern said.  "This is and will be one of New Zealand's darkest days."  People stand across the road from a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP People stand across the road from a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP Ardern looked to be struggling to keep her emotions in check as she spoke.  Bush said Police are pouring resources into the Christchurch area.  He said they were also setting up a facility so that people could get phone in and get more information about their loved ones as a priority.  Bush said Defence Force aircrafts in Wellington were ready to fly more resources into the area.  "I want to assure the public we are doing everything we can to make sure there is no more harm to their communities."  There was no indication there were other shooters at large.  The multiple fatalities were at two locations - a mosque at Deans Ave and one at Linwood Ave.  St John said there have been multiple fatalities.  People suffered injuries ranging from minor through to critical gun shot wounds.  A number of helicopter and road ambulances are on standby to provide support, including transporting patients to other ICUs around the country.  St John has deployed resources from throughout the country to provide cover for the next few days.  A Christchurch Star reporter saw a dead body lying close at Palazzo Lane near Al Noor Mosque.  The body has been covered with clothing.  A witness has seen a child lying in the middle of Deans Ave and another man has told the Herald his relative was shot inside the mosque.  It is understood the shooting at the mosque lasted six minutes and that the shooter may have returned to his car to retrieve more ammunition before opening fire again.  Ambulance staff tend to a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP Ambulance staff tend to a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP A large cordon has blocked off Strickland St around 3km from the Hagley mosque shooting.  A local man said a white van is at the centre of police focus. They believe a bomb is suspected to be inside.  The police bomb disposal unit is at the scene.  READ MORE: • Mosque shooting: Christchurch gunman livestreamed shooting • PM Jacinda Ardern: 'One of New Zealand's darkest days' • Mosque shooting: Gunman 'had magazines strapped to his legs' • Witness to mosque shooting: 'The gun shots ... I heard over 50' • Mosque shooting: What you need to know  A Christchurch woman has reported watching a man being arrested on Harrow Street.  Images captured of the scene show a man being apprehended by a police officer. Two police cars are stationed nearby, blocking off the street.  'I saw people drop dead in front of me.'  A man, who would only be known as Nour, who crawled to safety amid the carnage of the shooting has told Christchurch Star of what happened.  Nour in the front row of prayers when the gunman came in.  "First he shot people outside. Then he came in the front," he said.  He heard the gun being reloaded about three times.  The gunman began shooting in all directions.  "I saw people drop dead in front of me. I was crawling to get away."  "It was hitting the walls," he said.  Nour crawled across the floor of the mosque to a window that had been broken by others as they fled and jumped trough it.  He jumped over a neighbouring wall. He ran around the block and he could still hear shooting.  Mohan Ibrahim described to the Herald running for his life to escape the gunman. He was one of 200 people in Christchurch's Masjid Al Noor mosque when he heard shots being fired.  "At first we thought it was an electric shock but then all these people started running."  Police hold a suspect down on the ground. Photo / Kurt Bayer Police hold a suspect down on the ground. Photo / Kurt Bayer He said there had been lots of people killed and many injured.  "I still have friends inside.  "I have been calling my friends but there are many I haven't heard from. I am scared for my friends lives."  He said there had been lots of people killed and many injured.  A man who took in people who escaped from the mosque has shared their description of the gunman.  He was white, aged in his 30s or 40s and wearing a uniform, but he had not been able to ascertain what the uniform was, Oakford Close resident Robert Weatherhead said.  "[They said] 'he had a lot of magazines strapped to his legs'," Weatherhead said.  A man who was in Al Noor Mosque during a shooting says it was absolutely full for noon prayers. He believed many have been killed.  Police at the shooting in Christchurch. Photo / Supplied Police at the shooting in Christchurch. Photo / Supplied A woman told the Christchurch Star she lay in her car near the mosque as four to five men came running towards her.  She was unsure if they were gunmen. Moments earlier she heard what she thought was gunfire.  "When the noise got louder I saw four or five men running. I put my seat down and lay down so they wouldn't see me.  "I didn't think I'd live to see this happening in my country," she said.  A young man, who lives near Al Noor Mosque, said he was sleeping when he woke to 20-40 gun shots and a man running into his house with a bullet wound 3 inches into his leg.  The man with his three flatmates, who live on Brockworth Pl, called an ambulance and applied pressure on the victim's leg.  Graphic / NZH Graphic / NZH The victim said he had just been at the mosque, multiple shots were fired and fled the scene immediately looking for assistant .  He said the victim didn't see the armed gunman, but heard bullets ringing around.  He said that the victim told him he was almost shot in the stomach.  "I didn't realise something of this magnitude could happen in New Zealand," he said.  The ambulance never arrived so one of the flatmates drove the victim to hospital.  Second shooting at mosque in Linwood  A second shooting happened at a mosque in the Linwood area of the city.  Witnesses said they heard multiple gunshots around 1.45pm.  Mark Nichols, manager of Premium Tyres and Auto in Linwood, said he a gunman ran past his shop around 45 minutes ago.  He heard five gunshots, and he believed the activity was centred around the nearby Linwood Masjid mosque.  He saw two injured people carried on stretchers past his shop. Both appeared to be alive.  "I seen a guy with a gun running up the road. He's been firing about five shots, I think we heard," Nichols said.  "It might have been a shotgun. I didn't get a good look at it, I just cleared off.  "Apparently there have been people in the mosque shot.  "It's not very good, we're in shutdown mode now. It's all cordoned off."  Listen live on Newstalk ZB  Christchurch resident Mandy Rooney was trapped in her car within metres of a mosque in Bishopdale.  She said she tried to get out of the car to see what was going on but was ordered back into her vehicle by armed police.  "They have their guns up and are walking around scoping through them," she said.  "It is chaos. People have been trying to drive away and are just crashing into other vehicles."  Papanui High School, which is north of where both incidents occurred, is in lockdown.  The receptionist said staff were hiding under their desks, and she could not comment on any activity nearby.  A man wearing military clothing has been arrested outside Papanui High School.  Armed police on Langdons Road in Papanui. Photo / Broadcast Media Armed police on Langdons Road in Papanui. Photo / Broadcast Media There is a large police presence at the hospital with many armed officers.  The New Zealand National Front has said it the events in Christchurch do not involve the organisation, nor its members.  "The National Front does not condone or agree with this type of wanton murder of innocent people regardless of their religious beliefs.  "We believe in freedom of speech and freedom to worship whatever god you chose."  The University of Canterbury is in lock down. They say people are to stay inside until police give clearance.  Two Christchurch shopping malls are also in lockdown.  Shoppers and retail assistants at Westfield Riccarton and Northlands Mall are being told no one is allowed to leave.  The city centre is like a ghost town as police hunt the shooters.  Heavily armed police, including special units, are speeding around the empty streets with lights and sirens wailing.  Christchurch Mayor Lianne Dalziel said her message to people is to stay away from the central city.  Armed police can be seen on central Christchurch streets. Photo / Jacob Savage Armed police can be seen on central Christchurch streets. Photo / Jacob Savage "If you are in the city please stay in the building you are in," she said.  "All Council buildings are in lock down and they're urging all central city building owners to do the same, until advised by the Police they can leave."  'I heard at least 20 [gunshots]'  Benjamin Jellie said he ran outside when he heard gunshots.  "I saw people jumping over the back fence of the mosque into Oakward Close. I heard at least 20 [gunshots]."  "I heard about eight at the start and then it went quiet for about 30 seconds or a minute and then it started again. I heard about eight more and then there was another minute and another eight," Jellie said.  "Those coming over the fence, all adults and including at least three men, were screaming and crying."  He believed the injured were all conscious.  The injured were very quiet, Jellie said.  The Bangladesh cricket team was at the mosque for Friday prayer when the shooting started.  A taxi driver in Deans Ave told Newstalk ZB that a jogger in the park said shots had been fired inside the mosque.  "Police and ambulance are coming from every direction".  The public should not attend Christchurch Hospital unless it's an emergency, a Canterbury DHB spokeswoman said.  "All appointments have been cancelled this afternoon, and no staff or patients are to enter or leave the building."  Air New Zealand is offering flexibility to customers booked to fly to or from Christchurch today, in the wake of the shooting.  The airline will waive any fare change fees, should people need to make alternative travel arrangements.  Air New Zealand is also offering its support to Emergency Services managing the incident in Christchurch.  The events of today in Christchurch are distressing.  If you or someone you know needs mental wellbeing support or advice then call or text 1737 anytime day or night to talk to a trained counsellor."
"www-bild-de.translate.goog /news/2020/news/terror-in-hanau-schiesserei-tote-verchte-rechtsrechte-motive-68909822.bild.html Hanau: Terrorist Tobias Rathjen used weapons with a high rate of fire | news PICTURE 13-17 minutes 2/21/2020 Tobias Rathjen (43) murdered ten people for right-wing extremist motives : Terrorist uses extra fast firing weapons He published a confused manifesto ++ Nine of the ten victims have a migration background teaser image  Source: IMAGE02/20/2020  02/21/2020 - 10:52 am The terror night of Hanau (Hessen): Around 10 pm on Wednesday, the first shots were fired in the “Midnight” shisha bar on Heumarkt. dead, injured! Then the killer fled in a black car to the next crime scene: in the "Arena Bar & Café" he killed more people.  It is a bloody, right-wing extremist attack! The shooter: Tobias Rathjen (43). His body was discovered hours later in his apartment in the Kesselstadt district. The German had killed himself and his mother (72). Next to Rathjen was a gun with which he allegedly shot the other victims.  The nine people that Rathjen murdered on his terror tour had a migration background. One of the fatalities is said to be a mother of two (35).  ► Rathjen was a marksman and knew his way around weapons. Apparently he purposely used pistols with a rapid firing rate in order to be able to kill as many people as possible in a short time! He is said to have owned at least three weapons – including pistols that the police also use. According to BILD information, the terrorist fired from a Walther PPQ and a SIG Sauer P226, among other things. The latter is also used by the SEK in North Rhine-Westphalia, for example. Rathjen had had a gun owner's license since the summer of 2013 and was a member of a rifle club. The administration of the Main-Kinzig district in Gelnhausen had last checked his suitability for carrying weapons a year ago.  Tobias R. published a crude confession letter on the Internet, peppered with right-wing extremist views  Tobias Rathjen published a crude letter on the Internet, peppered with right-wing extremist views  Photo: private  According to BILD information, the right-wing terrorist left several confused online videos and a grotesque manifesto.  In the 24-page letter, Rathjen said, among other things, that certain peoples who could no longer be expelled from Germany had to be exterminated. He spread conspiracy theories. According to his own statement, Rathjen felt he was being followed and observed.  After the end of the SEK operation at the terrorist's apartment, his getaway car was also confiscated, which is now to be further investigated. Officials feared that Rathjen might have placed explosives inside.  Map: Shooting in Hanau - right-wing extremist attack on shisha bars - infographic  live ticker This is how BILD LIVE reported at night In a special broadcast, the BILD reporters summarize what is known so far about the bloody deed in Hanau.  BILD Live from the night Bloody deed in Hanau: 8 dead, 5 injured  BILD Live from the night: bloody deed in Hanau: 8 dead, 5 injured  Source: IMAGE02/20/2020  02/21/2020 - 5:46 p.m  Vigils in NRW commemorate the victims of Hanau In several cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, the victims of the attack in Hanau were commemorated on Friday evening. Up to 500 people demonstrated in Düsseldorf against right-wing extremist terror. "Our grief is also mixed with anger because those responsible for politics have played down and trivialized right-wing extremism for a long time," said Oliver Ongaro from the anti-fascist alliance "Düsseldorf opposes itself", which had called for the demonstration at short notice.The demonstration started centrally near the main train station and then moved to the Oberbilk district of Düsseldorf because, according to the organizers, many people with a migration background live there. "We want to show all people with a migration background in this country that they are not alone," emphasized Ongaro, who is also the spokesman for the alliance. Small posters said, among other things, "Defend democracy", "Stop the brown terror at last" or "No tolerance for Nazis". Other reminder events took place in Dortmund, Cologne and Bielefeld, among others. Cologne Mayor Henriette Reker (independent) had canceled her appointments at carnival events in order to take part in the "Cologne against the Right" demo on Roncalliplatz.  02/21/2020 - 5:17 p.m  Pope expresses solidarity with victims of Hanau Pope Francis reacted with dismay to the terrorist attack in Hanau. According to the Vatican, the "terrible act of violence" killed innocent people on Friday in a telegram of insults to Fulda Bishop Michael Gerber. The head of the church takes part in the grief of the bereaved and tells them "his closeness in their pain," wrote Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin on behalf of the pope. At the same time he expressed the hope of the head of the church for consolation for all mourners in Hanau.  teaser image  Photo: Luca Zennaro Pool / dpa  02/21/2020 - 5:15 p.m  Parents of victims receive 30,000 euros in help The Federal Government Commissioner for Victims, Edgar Franke (SPD), has promised the relatives of the victims of Hanau quick financial help. Emergency aid could be paid out from the fund for hardship benefits within two weeks, Franke told the newspapers of the editorial network Germany (Saturday editions). For spouses, children and parents of the dead, that is 30,000 euros, for siblings 15,000 euros. “It cannot alleviate the terrible suffering of losing one's parents or children. But at least it's a help for the most necessary things that are important at this moment," Franke added. In addition, there are benefits under the new Social Code Book 14, such as the payment of survivor's pensions and the assumption of funeral costs. The families needed support.  02/21/2020 - 2:38 p.m  BILD exclusive: Seehofer calls for a psycho test for gun owners Federal Interior Minister Horst Seehofer (70, CSU) was deeply shocked after the terrorist attack in Hanau. And he also wants to draw political consequences! In the BILD interview, Seehofer now specifically calls for “psycho tests for gun owners”! "If someone has a firearms license, it has to be checked regularly," the interior minister told BILD. He agreed with the Federal Minister of Justice Christine Lambrecht (SPD). But even before that, i.e. before acquiring the firearms license, a medical report would have to be provided.  Read more about the interview here.  Interior Minister Horst Seehofer in the BILD interview  Interior Minister Horst Seehofer in the BILD interview  Photo: Niels Starnick  02/21/2020 - 1:59 p.m  Is the terrorist spying on a target here? Images from a surveillance camera that have now surfaced suggest this conclusion.  Read the whole article here.  Terrorist Tobias Rathjen was recorded by a surveillance camera  Terrorist Tobias Rathjen was recorded by a surveillance camera  Photo: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images  02/21/2020 - 1:56 p.m  Fire near a shisha bar in Döbeln After the fire near a shisha bar and a kebab shop in Döbeln (central Saxony), the State Criminal Police Office took over the investigation. Due to the spatial proximity, a political background cannot be ruled out, said an LKA spokesman.  A fire broke out in the shed extension of an apartment building and in the basement of a neighboring house early Friday morning. Firefighters extinguished the flames. Nobody got hurt. The background to the fires was initially unclear. Fire investigators are currently examining the scene of the fire. Arson could not be ruled out, it said.  The police in Döbeln are investigating the incident  The police in Döbeln are investigating the incident  Photo: Harry Hartel  02/21/2020 - 12:43 p.m  Hanau mayor: "The murdered were not strangers" From the point of view of the mayor of Hanau, Claus Kaminsky (SPD), the racially motivated murders in Hanau should not be described as xenophobic. "Those who were murdered here in Hanau were not strangers," said Kaminsky in Hanau on Friday. In the city, many fellow citizens have a so-called migration background. "None of them are strangers," he emphasized in his emotional statement: "Fellow citizens died." "In addition to the psychopathic part, racism and hatred are the traces of the explanation," said Kaminsky, who was impressed by the worldwide sympathy expressed in mourning for the dead: "We are infinitely grateful for that."  Claus Kaminsky at a vigil in Hanau on Thursday  Claus Kaminsky at a vigil in Hanau on Thursday  Photo: Action Press  02/21/2020 - 12:18 p.m  Attorney General confirms BILD report Attorney General Peter Frank has confirmed a BILD report according to which the federal prosecutor's office had been in contact with the Hanau assassin last November. He filed a criminal complaint against an unknown secret service organization and expressed that there was a large, overarching organization that controlled many things, "latched into people's brains and then picked up certain things there in order to then control world events". .  According to Frank, the ad contained no right-wing extremist or racist statements. No investigation was initiated as a result of this letter.  The father of the alleged perpetrator had also attracted attention in the past in contact with the authorities through various letters, such as complaints. The man was found at the “opening of the apartment” of the alleged perpetrator on Thursday night. However, he is not a suspect in the investigation, but has witness status.  You can read all the background to the terrorist's complaint here with BILDplus.  Attorney General Peter Frank  Attorney General Peter Frank  Photo: Wolfgang Kumm / dpa  02/21/2020 - 11:15 am  Police remove lettering near crime scene The URL of the Hanau terrorist's website, which has since been deleted, was sprayed onto the wall of an underpass near a crime scene. The police have since painted over the lettering.  The lettering has been painted over  The lettering has been painted over  Photo: Nicolas Armer / dpa  Found an error in the article? Report now."
"UNC Grad Rented SUV to Maximize Injuries in Attack Associated PressRALEIGH, N.C. – A University of North Carolina graduate accused of running down nine people on campus in a sport utility vehicle rented the Jeep to inflict maximum injury, according to an affidavit released Tuesday.  Mohammed Reza Taheri-azar, a 22-year-old Iran native, told authorities he drove a rented Jeep Grand Cherokee because it had four-wheel drive and could "run things over and keep going," according to an application for a warrant to search his home and vehicle.  No one was seriously hurt last Friday when a vehicle plowed through a part of the campus known as The Pit, scattering students. Moments later, Taheri-azar called 911 to surrender, and prosecutors charged him with nine counts of attempted murder and assault.  During the call, Taheri-azar told a dispatcher he wanted to "punish the government of the United States for their actions around the world," according to a recording released by police. He later told investigators he hoped to "avenge the deaths of Muslims around the world," authorities have said.  The affidavit said Taheri-azar told police that he had been considering an attack to avenge mistreatment of fellow Muslims for two years, and that he had planned Friday's assault for two months.  He picked 11:45 a.m. Friday for the attack because that's when he expected the largest crowds, investigators said. He said he was disappointed there weren't more people in the area, according to the affidavit.  He was carrying two cans of pepper spray and a five-inch folding knife to use if he became trapped or threatened, the affidavit said.  Though assigned a public defender, Taheri-azar told the judge in his first court appearance Monday that he would make his own decisions about what to say. Prosecutor Jim Woodall said he expects Taheri-azar will be allowed to represent himself.  He is being held on a $5.5 million bond at a maximum-security prison.  He graduated in December after studying psychology and philosophy. Investigators believe he has spent most of his life in the United States."
""Innative white men full of hostility and frustration" Published on 10.10.2019 | Reading time: 8 minutes  The foreign press also looks at the blood crime of Halle: It marks a new dimension of anti-Semitic violence in Germany. The voices from Israel are particularly concerned about the increasing right-wing extremism.  ADVERTISEMENT  The anti-Semitic attack in Halle was already noticed far beyond Germany on Wednesday. The New York Times also reported when it became known that a right-wing extremist had tried to enter a synagogue heavily armed and shortly afterwards shot two passers-by. The incident is also the next day's topic in the comment columns of national and international newspapers.  "New York Times" (USA): Similarity to the Christchurch rampage  A heavily armed shooter with a livestream helmet camera tried to storm a synagogue in East Germany on Wednesday while believers celebrated the holiest day in Judaism. Held by a locked door, he killed two people outside and wounded two more in an anti-Semitic rampage that had the aftertaste of right-wing extremist terrorism. Hours later, the police announced the arrest of a suspect in the case of the city of Halle - from a whole series of attacks on Jews in Germany recently, this was one of the most shameless. (...)"  "Ha'aretz" (Israel): An attack on Jews and immigrants  The shots at the synagogue in East Germany were not just an anti-Semitic attack. It was also an attack on immigration (...). The main goal of the attacker in Halle was Jews in a synagogue on Yom Kippur. (...) And as we saw on Wednesday in Halle, the increased security at the synagogues saves lives. (...)  These are not organized or partly organized networks. But an ideology. (...) The explanation of the attacker in Halle is almost identical to that of the attacker, who murdered eleven Jews in a synagogue in Pittsburgh almost a year ago or the perpetrator from Christchurch, New Zealand, who killed 51 Muslims in prayer during a massacre in a mosque in March. It is a global, racist White Supremacy ideology (dominance of whites), which considers liberal openness to immigrants, women's and gay rights, and tolerance towards minorities as a threat to the white race. (...)  ADVERTISEMENT  In order to carry out a neo-Nazi attack, no terrorist infrastructure is required. The perpetrators are local white men full of hostility and frustration, incited not only by right-wing extremist websites and literature, but also by alleged mainstream politicians, above all President Donald Trump."  "La Repubblica" (Italy): The contagious of terror  "He was one step away from swirling European history. Only an armored door prevented Stephan B. from immersing the Jewish festival Yom Kippur in blood and reopening the most dramatic wound of German identity. Even if he missed his main goal, yesterday's attack on the synagogue of Halle means a signal that can no longer be ignored: The fire of intolerance has returned to burn in our countries with a violence never seen before. The fire of Halle is not an isolated case. And you can't reduce it to an episode of madness. Instead, we are facing the most serious threat to our democracies: in contrast to Islamic terrorism, it does not come from external worlds. It is the fruit of something that lives in the depths of European society and that quickly kills the antibodies that developed after the bloodbath of World War II."  "NZZ" (Switzerland): Thousands saw him murder  "A white man who murders out of right-wing radical hatred. Who films his act and broadcasts it live via social networks. Who publishes a manifesto on the Internet. The actions of the perpetrator of Halle are strongly reminiscent of that of the assassin of Christchurch, who murdered 50 people in two mosques in March.  These parallels should not be a coincidence. Brenton T., the murderer of Christchurch, had written a script with his approach in March, which found several imitators - among them probably the assassin of Halle. (...) T. streamed his act live on Facebook, the assassin of Halle chose Twitch, a video platform bought by Amazon in 2014. Twitch announced on Wednesday via Twitter that the live broadcast had been watched by about five people. The recording of the stream was then seen by about 2200 people before it was reported to Twitch as problematic. The "hash" of the video was then shared with other social media companies to prevent the spread. (...) The assassin of Halle was not able to generate the same worldwide attention as his alleged role model in Christchurch. Nevertheless, thousands saw him murder on Wednesday."  "Leipziger Volkszeitung": Attack in Halle  In Halle, the identitarian movement runs a house in the middle of the city - the identitarian movement that the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution classified as clearly right-wing extremist in the summer and which, among other things, maintains contacts with parts of the AfD. In Saxony-Anhalt - more precisely: in Tröglitz - it was also where a refugee shelter burned in the spring of 2015 and the brave mayor Markus Nierth resigned. The state government has put the dangers from the right into perspective later on and again under the impression of the strengthening of the AfD - fatally. What applies to Halle applies to the whole country. The militancy of the right-wing extremist scene is growing. It appears more and more blatantly and sometimes even seeps into the security authorities."  "Schwäbische Zeitung": The hatred of Jews was never gone.  "Insult, blows in the face, attempted manslaughter - the list of violence against Jews in Germany is long. If the doors of the synagogue in Halle had not withstood the rifle shots of the German perpetrator, Jewish believers would have fallen victim to a massacre. This idea makes you stunned. For decades, German society has dealt with its historical guilt. But the hatred of Jews was never gone. The Federal Government's anti-Semitism commissioner recently warned that he could not recommend Jews to wear the kippa everywhere in Germany at any time. After the attack, it was said that politicians had to react. But that's not enough. Every individual must stand up against anti-Semitism: Do not remain silent when lies about Jews are spread in the sports club, in the circle of friends or in the family. The realization that inhumane deeds result from inhuman thinking is not new. It was only proven again on Wednesday."  "General-Anzeiger": No more Sundays  The blood crime of Halle marks a new dimension of anti-Semitic violence. While Jews in Germany have been exposed to insults and attacks almost daily and more frequently on the street, they must now fear for their lives. A shocking finding. (...) From Halle, of this Yom Kippur 2019, a clear sign must therefore emanate: Society must no longer accept anti-Semitism in silence. Not on the Internet, not in the family, not among friends, not at work. Anti-Semitism, whether right, left, in the middle or among Muslims, must have no place. No more indifference. No Sunday talk. The sentence 'Never again!' must be filled with new life. Never again - new efforts are needed so that this promise can be kept."  "Fuldaer Zeitung": A frightening blood toll  "The two dead and the injured are a frightening blood toll. And this weighs all the more seriously because almost 81 years after the destruction organized by the Nazis and the desire to murder in the Reichspogromnacht, attacks have now been carried out again on the Jewish community in Germany. Despite all the final lines, who do not want the mass murder of the Jews of Europe, which was industrially organized in the Nazi rule, to be considered historically unprecedented, but as another "unsunplorable" date of history next to Napoleon, the Hun king Attila or the conquests of the Romans, such an attack on German soil is a shameful with special effect  "Badische Neueste Nachrichten": On the day of reconciliation, of all places  "In Israel, Yom Kippur is also commemorated as the victims of the war of 1973, when Egypt and Syria attacked the country. The tragic pictures of the 2019 holiday come from Germany, from a country where such pictures should no longer exist. Crimes against Jews in Germany are deeply buried in the collective memory. The fact that the pictures can be seen on the day of reconciliation, of all places, does not only affect the heart of the Jewish community."  PLEASE ALSO READ Minister of State for Culture Monika Grütters sees anonymous hatred on social media as a special danger MONIKA GRÜTTERS "Anti-Semitism has become more unrestrained" ADVERTISEMENT  "Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung": It is also about self-presentation in digital media  "You have to be ashamed that Jewish (as well as Muslim) life in Germany is no longer safe. If it ever was. Why? Why? How can that be? How sad, how brutal is that, how stupid. Questions are addressed to the security forces after such acts. Negligence in recent years has raised the suspicion that some things could go better for them, possibly especially in Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt. And another question is addressed not only to the perpetrator, but also to society. The neo-Nazi broadcast his deeds live on the Internet, in all details. So he was not only concerned with the most spectacular murders possible, but also with self-expression in digital media. A trend that also holds dangers."  "Stuttgarter Nachrichten": There were enough signs  "No one said that no one could have guessed that, let alone know it. The attack in Halle came as a complete surprise. Because there were enough signs: The number of anti-Jewish crimes increased by 20 percent compared to 2017 - to 1799 - in Germany alone in 2018. Baden-Württemberg's anti-Semitism commissioner Michael Blume had already warned of the "racely growing danger of open anti-Semitism and a growing number of anti-Semitism crimes" in the summer."
"NEW YORK POST: FROM APRIL 20, 1995 Laura Harris “A terrorist bomb blast yesterday jolted Oklahoma City, in America’s heartland, just as workers were starting their day. It shattered the downtown Alfred Murrah Federal Building just after 9 a.m., an attack eerily reminiscent of the blast that rocked New York’s World Trade Center two years ago. It claimed the lives of young and old without prejudice, left hundreds of injured in the burning rubble, and frustrated rescue workers who couldn’t reach the victims fast enough. And it put fear in the hearts of a nation.”   "
"Zamaskovaný vrah pozoroval svoje obete desiatky minút. Zastrelil ich zbraňou, ktorú mal vybavenú laserom 13/10/2022, 07:1413/10/2022, 15:16Autor: Jana Šimíčková3-4 minutes 10/13/2022 The killer waited for tens of minutes. Dressed almost entirely in black, with a cap on his head and a veil over his face, huddled in the alcove of a building on one of the busiest streets in the center of Bratislava. Thousands of people, especially tourists, pass through it every day. It leads from the city straight to the castle, which is probably why it got the name Zámocká. In its lower part, there is a business that is sought after by people from the LGBTI+ community.  A masked man stood just a few meters from his entrance shortly after 6:35 p.m. He acted inconspicuously. As if he was watching people in front of the company. After about half an hour, something seemed to catch his attention.  image He suddenly turned his back to the street more violently, pulled out a laser weapon, cocked it and strode towards the establishment. He aimed and fired. Eight shots first. He then reloaded his gun and continued shooting with several more shots.   image Two dead  At that time, two people were sitting on a bench in front of the business. At first, it seemed that the shooting was not related to them, that they were not the intended victims of the killer. But they were. Two men who were left lying on the ground without signs of life. One was right next to the bench, the other managed to get closer to the entrance, but the killer caught up with him. He also injured one woman, whom he shot in the leg. Shortly after that, he turned and ran towards a nearby park. This is how the sequence of the tragedy, which occurred in the early evening of October 12, was captured by cameras located on one of the buildings on Zámocká Street. It is clear from the recording that the killer, who was found dead by the police, seems to have been watching his victims the whole time. The police are investigating what his reasons were and what triggered the attack. As well as other circumstances of the entire event.  Lots of people The shooting took place at a time when Zámocká Street is still relatively busy. Just a few minutes before the tragedy, a group of several people with dogs, including a school-age girl, was walking near the killer. They started from the nearby gate that leads to the castle forest park. There are groceries not far from the crime scene, and across the road is the Pálffy Palace, where the opening of the exhibition took place at the time. There were approximately 40 guests who were just leaving. The camera footage captured one of them standing across the street directly opposite the killer. She was waiting for her husband. The moment she heard the shots, she ran back to the palace in fear.  image"