10-Aftenposten

«Everything is at stake if Norway is sentenced. In that case we have failed»
Anders Behring Breivik (37) committed inhuman deeds. Now the court will decide whether Norway is punishing him in an inhuman way.

Nyhetsbrev:Redaktørens ukebrev
Sjefredaktør Trine Eilertsen skriver om saker hun har festet seg ved uken som gikk.
Ila Detention and Security Prison, March 2013: Anders Behring Breivik, the terrorist behind the 22 July 2011-attacks, gives his mother a hug. They say goodbye. Two weeks later, she passes away.
These few minutes outside the glass wall in the visitor’s cabin is the only moment the terrorist has enjoyed physical contact with other persons, except professional staff, in almost five years, according to lawyer Øystein Storrvik.
Why the terrorist files a lawsuit
As a human being, we all enjoy certain rights. Human rights are supposed to reduce the state’s exercise of power.
Has the system gone too far in placing Behring Breivik in isolation for 4,5 years? Or is Norway perfectly able to fulfill its human rights obligations, even when facing this mass murderer and terrorist?

These will be the main questions as Ms. Helen Andenæs Sekulic, a judge at the Oslo District Court, opens the case in the Telemark prison gym in the southern city of Skien on Tuesday 15. March.
The terrorist has gone to court in order to get a legal judgement on whether the treatment he is receiving violates his rights as a human being.
3 years and 9 months after he stepped out of courtroom no. 250, in the basement of Oslo’s courthouse, Mr. Behring Breivik is returning to the legal apparatus which sentenced him in August 2012 to the severest penalty possible under Norwegian law, 21 years preventive detention.
4 days have been set aside for dealing with the civilian lawsuit raised by the 37-year-old against the Ministry of Justice and Public Safety. The terrorist asserts that his isolation violates the articles no. 3 and no. 8 in The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).
The former article states that noone shall be exposed to «torture» or «inhuman or demeaning treatment or punishment». The latter says everyone has the right to a private and family life. (see fact chart).
The government, on the other hand, consider that the conditons he has been, and is serving under, in prison are well within the directions drawn up by ECHR jurisprudence.
This is a story about Norway’s treatment of Anders Behring Breivik as a prisoner in isolation, and whether Norway is violating human rights. This story is not about the horrible misdeeds he committed on 22 July 2011, and all the human suffering he inflicted on thousands of survivors, bereaved and family members.
Read editor in-chief Espen Egil Hansen's editorial (in Norwegian):
Les også
Why we write about Behring Breivik
Says the system has gone too far
Oslo, the first Friday in February: The lawyer who has been assigned the task of helping the terrorist with his lawsuit sits in a conference room near the court house. Øystein Storrvik has been the counsel for Behring Breivik since last summer.

Anders Behring Breivik's lawyer, Øyvind Storrvik.
The experienced lawyer has served as a permanent defense attorney with Oslo District Court and Borgarting for 18 years, and he has been running his own law firm for 30 years. Most people know him as the lawyer who defended the NOKAS-robber David Toska and the well known Bandidos-member Lars Harnes.
— This process is about minimum standards for human treatment. I think the system has gone much too far. That is why we want this tried in court, he says. Two basic conditions are important, according to Mr. Storrvik:
— The opportunity to maintain a relationship with other human beings, and the opportunity to communicate and stay in touch with other people. He pauses, then emphazises something he finds just as important:
— We do not have the death penalty in Norway. Therfore it is a dilemma that we have a system which removes so many of the things that make life worth living, he says.
These are Norway’s most stringent terms of confinement
Skien prison. The main gate is painted purple, orange and red, in stark contrast to the grey prison walls that divide them from us; the 82 inmates from the free. This is where he is living.

The terrorist Anders Behring Breivik (37) is serving his time under particularly high security in Telemark prison in Skien. He has spent 4,5 years in isolation. Now he will sue the government because he thinks these conditions constitute a violation of the human rights. Foto: Tor Erik Schrøder
Since July 2011 the terrorist has been serving under «particularly high security» conditions in Ila Detention and Security Prison in Bærum right outside of Oslo and in Skien prison, 100 kilometres southwest of the capital.
Particularly high level of security represents the very strictest prison regime in Norway. It is used in a very limited number of cases, when there exists a particular danger of escape, hostage taking or of renewed, serious crime. (see fact chart)
This level can only be established when deemed strictly necessary for security. There is no limitation on how long a person can be held in such a maximum security department.
During the past 10 years only six other inmates have been held there, all charged or sentenced for murder or severe drug crimes. The persons who did the longest time before Behring Breivik, served one year and 9 months.
None of those serving their time on this security level has any relationship with inmates from other departments in the prison. The level of isolation may differ, however, based on among other things information from the police and other sources.
The Norwegian Correctional Service may refuse visits and prevent prisoners from sending or receiving mail. Visits must be approved in advance, meetings will take place behind a glass wall and conversations are being monitored. Also a guard may be present in the room.
The prison warden may ease these control measures, with the approval of the Correctional Service. In Behring Breivik’s case, they consider the terms of confinement and the isolation to be necessary for safety reasons.
One of the few known cases when the terrorist’s security was challenged, happended last spring. One inmate in the Skien prison escaped from the prison’s exercise yard and found his way to the outside of the terrorist’s security department, where he was stopped by a locked door.
Such is the terrorist’s isolation
Behring Breivik is sitting behind several locked doors in the prison security department. For safety reasons, informations about his daily life is being withheld from the public.
But we know a few things:
In Ila as well in Skien he has had several rooms at his disposal.
Every day the terrorist may move freely between a living room cell, an exercise cell and a study cell, according to a visitors’ report to the Parliamentary ombudsman from the Skien prison last year.
In addition to this, he is offered time, on a daily basis, in a special exercise yard measuring about 50 sq. meters. He may not work out in the prison gym and he is not allowed to visit the library.
He is not offered the chance to work, but there are facilities for private studies, according to the report.

Mr. Behring Breivik is being offered a daily walk in fresh air in a separate exercise yard measuring about 50 sq. meters.
Aftenposten knows that he has access to printed newspapers and TV. Recently he also received a new game console, the Xbox 360.
After a legally valid judgement he has not had access to a computer, but he has a typewriter.
In principle, the terrorist has for 4,5 years been completely isolated from everyone else, except some professionals like prison guards or health care staff.
Planned or organised time in the company of prison staff was, until June of last year, limited to one hour, once a week.
Meetings with the lawyer take place in a special room behind a glass wall. The same goes for the professional prison visitor who regularly comes to see him.
Even conversations with medical personell, whom he may see twice weekly, take place behind a transparent wall and with visual surveillance. He is also offered the services of a psychologist or a psychiatrist.
The Parliamentary ombudsman after visiting Behring Breivik (in Norwegian):
Les også
He should have more company
The pressure of isolation
The terrorist has no contact with other inmates, and he receives no visit from outside.

All cells in Skien prison are alike. The terrorist can study in a cell of this type. Foto: Telemark prison, Skien
According to Storrvik the physical conditions of confinement are not the most important themes in the upcoming process. They have improved, he says. Behring Breivik wants the court’s judgement on the combined «pressure of isolation».Even if the Correctional Service says the isolation must be compensated with more contact to prison staff, facilities for studies, activities and recreation, Mr. Storrvik says certain things cannot be compensated for.
— It is rather obvious, that those persons who have a job to do in the prison are not concerned with the same things that he is. All normal, human relations have been removed. There is no indication that changes are under way in the terms of confinement. The question in this case is whether this is right, or whether one has gone to far, says the attorney, before he answers his own question:
— I think it is clearly harmful for him to serve out his sentence the way he is doing.
- Extremely long time
The assertion that isolation is harmful, is supported by many.
— All research indicates that isolation harms human beings, cognitively (involving conscious intellectual activity), physically and mentally. Being isolated for 4,5 years is an extremely long time, says the renowned Danish psychologist Ida Koch, who is a member of the network Skandinavisk isolasjonsnettverk.

This group wants to contribute to better knowledge and a critical focus on isolation in prisons. Ms. Koch emphasizes that she is not familiar with the details of Behring Breivik’s prison regime.
The psychologist says one can never be sure in advance what kind of harm the inmates will be exposed to during isolation, but selfinflicted damage, suicide, depression, fear and psychosis are among the most usual negative effects, according to a major Danish isolation study in the 1990’s. It also showed that after 40 days, the relative risk of hospitalization for mental illness was about 50 times higher for prisoners sitting in isolation.
Ingebjørg Nytrøen has been a prison officer for 18 years, 15 of them at the reception department in Oslo prison, where many of the detainees are held in isolation.
— Isolation may harm a person for the rest of his life. In my experience isolation may lead to depression and suicidal thoughts, fear, inner unrest, nervousness and psychosis. Isolated prisoners may develop outrage and irrational thoughts, actions and behaviour, according to Ms. Nytrøen, who is now working as a prison superintendent at the Correctional Service’s educational centre (KRUS)
Everything at stake if Norway is sentenced
But then, consider this: Why should we worry about how a person who murdered 77 people is living in prison?
Thomas Horn, who is a partner in the Schjødt law firm, says a good approach to this question is to think back on the days just after 22 July 2011.
-Then we stood together as a community, in spite of being shocked and traumatized. And the trial in itself was conducted in a way which is worthy of a state under the rule of law. Norway was put at a difficult test, which we passed, says Mr. Horn, who wrote his doctoral thesis on solitary confinement last year. Even if Norway passed the first test, it is equally important that we pass the one we are facing now, he says.
- What is really at stake?
— Everyting is at stake if Norway is sentenced. In that case we will have failed in the follow-up. We like to see ourselves as a human rights nation. If we should fail when it comes to the conditions of confinement for Behring Breivik, it would become more difficult for us to criticize bad practice in other nations.

Everyting is at stake if Norway is sentenced, says lawyer Thomas Horn. Foto: Berit Roald, NTB Scanpix
Furthermore, adds the lawyer:
— The basic human rights are valid for everyone. Nobody, no matter what, may be excluded by definition as a human being. The court does not practice tit for tat, the Book of Genesis does that, says Horn.
What will the court be stressing?
But what are in fact the main assesments the court will make in order to establish whether Norway is violating the human rights in the treatment of this terrorist?
— It is a complex consideration, where they have to take into account the duration and degree of solitary confinement, the physical conditions and other control measures the isolated prisoner may be subject to. What will be decisive, is what harmful effects this type of confinement has, and if there is a sufficient justification for the isolation, says Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen, a professor and scientific leader at the centre for human rights, Norsk senter for menneskerettigheter, University of Oslo (UiO).
Thomas Horn says the court will find it difficult to define solitary confinement as a violation of the ECHR, article 3.
But recent practice at the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) may indicate that the court is increasingly recognizing the notion that isolation is harmful. Therefore, governments may in the future be subject to a stricter assessment, he says. The judges will in this case consider the complete conditions of Behring Breivik’s confinement.
— Isolation will then be just one important element. It is worth noting that prisoners who are mentally ill, which I think Behring Breivik definitely is, has a right to a very close monitoring of his health conditon.
Well within guidelines
In four and a half weeks the terrorist will again face the public when he enters the prison gym hall in Skien, where he will be sitting opposite to Ms. Sekulic.

Four days have been set aside for the trial in the gym building in Skien prison. Behring Breivik wants to attend the entire trial. Foto: Telemark prison, Skien
Behring Breivik will be present during the entire main hearings and give his evidence. Among the witnesses is the psychiatrist Randi Rosenquist, who previously estimated his mental situation.
She made several interviews with Breivik, and has written several reports. She stated in court in 2012 that Breivik «based his vision on a delusion, not on a psychosis.»
The court will also hear prison employees as witnesses. Marius Emberland, counsel with the Office of the Attorney General, will lead the trial on behalf of the government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and Public Security.
— The government’s main argument is that the terms of confinement in this case are well within the guidelines defined by legal practice as concerns both articles 3 and 8 in the ECHR, he says. He emphasizes that his client, the Norwegian Correctional Service, presupposes that the conditions in prison are in full compliance with the human rights.
Whom the government will bring as witnesses is not yet known.
Solitary confinement?
But how isolated is the mass murderer really in prison? Mr. Emberland has the following comment on the description of Behring Breivik’s living conditions in prison as «isolation»:
— He is and has been imprisoned in a jail with a particularly high level of security. The parties may disagree on how to characterize this, and we will return to the question during the trial, he says.

In October last year the lawyers Øystein Storrvik, counsel for Behring Breivik, and Marius Emberland with the Office of the Attorney General of Norway met in Oslo District Court in order to plan the main proceedings. Foto: Vidar Ruud
Professor Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen, however has no doubts about the notion «isolation». He says Behring Breivik is treated with a high degree of isolation. — Yes, this is absolutely clear. As far as I understand, Behring Breivik only communicates with professional prison staff, and this involves a very extensive isolation. Only rarely is someone being subjected to such a long lasting isolation under so strict conditions, he says.
- Many people are concerned with the harmful effects of solitary confinement. What importance does the ECHR attach to this?
— This is a decisive element in the ECHR’s court practice. If the inmate is at risk of getting lasting mental damage, it will take a lot to continue the isolation. In that case, measures must be introduced in order to counteract the harmful effects, he says.
Legitimate security or additional punishment?
In 2014 Behring Breivik’s then defense lawyer Tord Jordet, with the Lippestad law firm, told Aftenposten:
«Breivik is being isolated from contact with other inmates and is mostly prevented from communicating with persons outside of the prison. As this is entirely justified by the things he was already sentenced for, this looks like an illegal additional punishment, and an obvious human rights violation.»
Mr. Storrvik answers this about whether he agrees to Mr. Jordet’s description of solitary confinement as being an additional punishment:
— Quite obviously it is an additional punisment, to put it mildly.
Marianne Vollan, managing director of the Correctional Services Directorate, rejected in Aftenposten two years ago the claims that Behring Breivik’s terms of confinement represent an additional punishment.She stated that there are no special rules for the terrorist.
— We follow, at all times, the actual regulations, she said.
- A particularly high security level can only ble established when it is necessary for safety reasons. Isn’t this justification completely legitimate, Mr. Storrvik?
— Every severe punishment will have a large security aspect connected to it, and the entire process of sitting out the sentence will be planned according to security. But there will be a limit to how much consideration one should give to security, as seen against a human treatment. I think one has gone too far in this respect, he says. Storrvik mentions all the meetings behind a transparent wall as an example of something he considers to be «obviously an unjustified and excessive safety assessment».
— From the nature of this case, we of course understand that the man qualifies for the strictest terms of confinement in Norway. We think this security level must be given a content which is more humane for him, says Storrvik.
Within, but approaching a limit
The case opens on Tuesday 15 March here in this prison gymnasium in Skien. Foto: Esben Reiersen
Behring Breivik’s case will probably move on to Norway’s Supreme court, and may even end up with the European human rights court in Strasbourg. – This is highly probable, and I think the process will be clarifying on a national level, says Storrvik.This is how Marius Emberland at the Office of the Attorney General answers to the question whether the government also will take the case to the very top, if necessarry.
— I see no reason to anticipate this, he says.
10, 20, 30 eller 40 years..?
Then the question is this: Is there a limit to how long the terrorist can be in solitary confinement before it gets inhuman?
Professor Kjetil Mujezinović Larsen says the handling of Behring Breivik complies with Norway’s human rights obligations.
— Yes, I think so, as of today. However, we are approaching a limit. Nobody can live in isolation for ever, and Breivik will sooner or later have to be reintroduced into a social community inside the prison, he says. Thomas Horn adds that the terrorist’s confinement at some time must become less stringent.
— It is easy to understand that Anders Behring Breivik represents a security risk, but to what extent and when could and should one ease the security measures he is being subject to? How many more years must he remain isolated? 10, 20, 30 of 40 years…?

«Reopening the wounds»
— The upcoming trial is about the terrorist’s prison conditions, not about ther persons affected. He will have much attention, and this will hurt many people. We hope he will not be given the opportunity to exploit the case as a rostrum for his political points of view, says Lisbeth Kristine Røyneland, who is the leader of the national supporting group following the tragedy of 22. July 2011.
Røyneland lost her daughter Synne (18) in Utøya.

— We of course want the terrorist to have as little attention as possible. However, we understand that everything concerning this person involves major public interest. Even foreign news organisastions will be here, and we must adapt to this reality.
- What do you think about the fact that the terrorist has been isolated for 4,5 years in prison?
— The terrorist murdered 77 innocent people, and inflicted thousands of people harm, sorrow and bereavement. He has received his sentence, and is sitting his time. We are not concerned with his conditions in prison, says Røyneland.
- What if he wins the case?
— We must accept that, if it happens.
Ms. Røyneland says members of the supporting group need information about the consequences such a decision in his favor would have for his prison conditions.
— We are therefore distributing letters where we try to provide the answers.
- Do someone fear that his conditions might be less severe?
— No, this is not my impression.
Lisbeth Kristine Røyneland says the trial will be distressing and painful for a lot of people, and some may see it as a trigger, reopening old wounds.
— They come regularly, and everything published about him might reopen the wounds for those of us who are directly involved. The support group is pleading with the press to be as cautious as possible, particularly as to the publication of pictures of the terrorist and the design of front pages.
69 persons, most of them members of the Labour Party’s youth organisastion AUF, were shot and killed by Anders Behring Breivik in Utøya on 22. July 2011.
– The AUF is not a party to this case, and we do not comment on the conditons being brought up by the terrorist. But we are counting on that no human rights have been or are being violated. Most important from our point of view is that the terrorist will not exploit the trial as a rostrum for his fascist propaganda, states the AUF-chairman Mani Hussaini.
Fakta
The terrorist Anders Behring Breivik (37)
Was sentenced to 21 years of preventive detention with a minimum of 10 years incarceration on 24 August 2012, for the terror attacks on government buildings in Oslo and in Utøya in Buskerud on 22 July 2011. He killed 8 people in Oslo and 69 in Utøya. He is serving out his sentence under a regime of particularly high security in Telemark prison in Skien, 100 kilometers southwest of Oslo and in Ila prison in Bærum near the capital. He is suing the government for violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, articles 3 and 8.The main proceedings will start on 15. March in Skien prison.
Fakta
Solitary confinement
This is no unambiguous phenomenon. Solitary confinement is a form of imprisonment in which an inmate is isolated from any human contact, though often with the exception of members of prison staff. The notion is also sometimes used in psychiatric treatment.Forced isolation involves strictly limited autonomy. That is why isolation is often referred to as a «prison within the prison». Solitary confinement also reduces the quality of mental and physical stimuli. The detainee is kept locked inside a cell, where there is a limited amount of sensations.
Fakta
Particularly High Security Level
First introduced on 1 March 2002. A regime of Particularly High Security Level may be enforced when special security provisions are deemed necessary. Particularly High Security Level is the most stringent regime possible to impose on inmates in Norwegian prisons. It entails the following: Especially secure cells and wing. No contact with inmates from other wings or units. Some contact with inmates from one’s own wing or unit, depending on a security assessment. The limited contact with other inmates shall be compensated by extended contact with prison employees and adequate work-, education-, and other activities as well as leisure time activities. A total of 11 inmates in high risk departments duing the past 10 years.Source: The Norwegian Correctional Service Directorate