12-NYPost

CHILLING WORDS WRITTEN IN COLD BLOOD
Post Staff Report
Mass murderer Jiverly Wong mailed this rambling, paranoid letter — ostensibly intended to explain his coldblooded spree — to a Syracuse TV station just hours before opening fire in a Binghamton immigrant-assistance center. The letter, dated March 18, was postmarked April 3, the same day Wong killed 13 innocent people and wounded four others before taking his own life.Date: March-18-2009 Dear: New Ten Now I am Jiverly Wong shooting the people The first I want to say sorry I know a little English I hope you under stand all of this. Of course you need to know why I shooting? Because undercover cop gave me a lot of ass during eighteen years. I got seven years and eight month delivery to grocery in the California. Came back New York on the August 2007. Let talk about when I live in California. Such as . . . cop used 24 hours the technique of ultramodern and camera for burn the chemical in my house. For switch the channel Ti.Vi for adjust the fan. For made me unbreathable. For made me vomit. For connect the music into my ear. Undercover cop usual coined some nasty was not true about me and spread a rumor to the receive and some people know me con duce toward many people prejudiced and selfish to me . . . cop made me lost my job . . . Cop put me became poor. Let talk about when I live at the 28 Baker St. 2nd Floor. Johnson City. New York. 13790. It terrible when I live there such as . . . cop wait until midnight when off the light and went to bed. Cop unlock my door and came in take a sit in my room on the thirteen time had three time touch me when I sleeping. One time stolen 20 dollar in my wallet. One time used electric gun shoot at the behind my neck. (That time I did not know English) Please continue second page. Thank you. From 1990 to 1995 New York undercover cop try to get a car accident with me. Such as when I driving on the highway and on the street undercover cop sud denly brake the car stop immediately at the of front my car . . . cop did it 32 time like that during 1990 to 1995 but I never hit the car Many time from 1990 to 1997 at the day time . . . cop exploit unknon English and went to my house knock the door for harass and domi neer. Of course during that time cop coined something was not true about me and spread rumour nasty like the California cop. From August 2007 until now cop gave me not to much ass One time cop leave a mas sage in my voice mail and said come back your country after five minute I send a text message to them I said I will call the police and they send it To me they said they are the police Dear . New Ten Now . Right now I still get unemployment benefit of the company Shop Vac Endicott. New York State Department of Labor was cheat and un paid from December – 1st – 2008 to December – 28th – 2008. I already claim weekly benefit from that date. Any way I can not accepted my poor life. Before I cut my poor life I must oneself get a judge job for make an impartial with undercover cop by at least two people with me go to return to the dust of earth. Already impartial now . . . cop bring about this shooting cop must responsible. And you have a nice day.