Timeline of events leading up to and including killings of 6 in chaotic Santa Barbara rampage
Associated PressLOS ANGELES –
b07de249-
FILE- This undated file photo from the California Department of Motor Vehicles shows the driver license photo of Elliot Rodger, 22, who went on a murderous rampage Friday, May 23, 2014. Authorities concluded that Rodger who killed six people and injured 13 others near the University of California, Santa Barbara, last year acted alone. The Sheriff's Office released a report Thursday, Feb. 19, 2015, on its eight-month investigation into the massacre. (AP Photo/California DMV, File) (The Associated Press)
The Santa Barbara sheriff released a 64-page report Thursday detailing the May 23 rampage by Elliot Rodger that killed six University of California, Santa Barbara students and injured 14 others.

Here's a timeline of key events from the report and his manifesto:

Dec. 4, 2012 — Rodger purchases the first of three 9 mm semi-automatic handguns he had with him during the attack.

June 3, 2013 — Rodger wrote in his diary about "The Day of Retribution" when he would get revenge on women who spurned him and "kill every single young couple at my college or in Isla Vista."

Jan. 15, 2014 — Rodger placed housemate, Cheng Hong, under citizen's arrest for allegedly stealing three candles valued at $22.

April 22 — Rodger creates "My Twisted World." Intended as an autobiography, the 137-page manifesto spelled out his hatred for women and described in detail the plot he planned to carry out.

April 24 — Originally planned as the date of his rampage, Rodger writes in his manifesto that he woke up with a cold and decided to postpone his plan to May.

April 30 — Authorities check on Rodger after his family calls police about disturbing YouTube videos. Rodger says in his manifesto that he deceived detectives: "If they had demanded to search my room... That would have ended everything. For a few horrible seconds I thought it was all over."

May 14 — Rodger searches online for news of a knife attack that injured six people in the Chinese city of Guangzhou.

May 22 — Rodger uses his iPhone to record his "Retribution" video describing his killing plot that he later posted on YouTube.

May 23 — Rodger types in the search term "quick silent kill with a knife," on his computer. He fatally stabs his two roommates and their friend in his apartment.

May 23 at 7:38 p.m. — He buys a triple vanilla latte at Starbucks.

9:18 p.m. — Rodger emails his manifesto to 34 people, including his parents, friends and mental health providers.

9:27 p.m. — Sheriff's dispatchers receive the first 911 call of shots fired.

9:35 p.m. — A deputy reports that Rodger has been shot. He is found dead in the driver's seat of his BMW with a self-inflicted gunshot to the right side of his head.