Parliament Hill gunman ID'd as Michael Zehaf-Bibeau
Published Oct 22, 2014  •  Last updated Oct 23, 2014  •  2 minute read

 Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, pictured in this image tweeted from an ISIS social media account, has been identified as the shooter of a soldier standing guard at the National War Memorial in Ottawa, Oct. 22, 2014. (Twitter/Handout/QMI Agency)
Article content

OTTAWA
Who is Michael Zehaf-Bibeau? Was he acting alone? And what was his motive?

The man, reportedly born in 1982, was named as the gunman behind the deadly attacks on Parliament Hill on Wednesday.

He was killed in a gunfight in the hallways of Parliament.

Two U.S. officials told Reuters Zehaf-Bibeau was Canadian born and a convert to Islam. He was also flagged as an "at-risk" traveller.

One official said he was from Quebec, where he had faced drug charges in 2004.

Police confirm he was the only attacker in the armed assault that killed reservist Cpl. Nathan Cirillo, 24, and wounded others.

[MOBILE USERS: CLICK HERE TO WATCH RAW FOOTAGE]



Several witnesses described seeing a man jump from a Toyota Corolla at 9:52 a.m. and run towards the Centre Block.

They said he was dressed in dark blue and black, with a scarf wrapped around his face, carrying a shotgun or some other type of long gun.

A Twitter account associated with terror group the Islamic State (ISIS) tweeted out a photo they identified as the Ottawa shooter - a young man with long, dark hair holding a long gun. His face is covered with the black and white scarf worn by Palestinians.

That Twitter account was apparently followed by Martin "Ahmed" Rouleau, another Canadian-born convert to Islam who on Monday ran his car into two Canadian Forces members, killing one. Rouleau was killed by police following a chase.

Montreal-based reporter Domenic Fazioli reported that Zehaf-Bibeau's name appears three times in Montreal's court database. Fazioli reported the suspect was arrested five times, three times for drug possession (marijuana and PCP) and twice for breaching parole conditions.

The name also appears in Vancouver's court database. A man going by that name was charged with a Dec. 16, 2011, Vancouver robbery but pleaded guilty Feb. 22, 2012, to a lesser charge of uttering threats and sentenced to one day in jail and a $100 victim surcharge.

"I am not able to confirm that this is the same person responsible for the events in Ottawa," Const. Brian Montague said. "Confirmation on suspect identity and information would have to come from the Ottawa Police Service or the RCMP.

"The Vancouver Police Department, along with the BC RCMP, are working together to assist an Ottawa City Police and RCMP National Security investigation. Due to the ongoing investigation, there is little information we can share at this time."

- with files from Reuters

Mobile users, click here for updates

Share this article in your social network