HIS ‘SMILEY FACE’ HID THE DARK SOUL OF A MAD BOMBER
Susan Edelman
IF Luke Helder had taken the path everyone expected, he would have been taking final exams in college last week, and wrapping up classes in his major of industrial design.

Instead, Helder, 21, was escorted to Iowa to face charges he placed homemade pipe bombs in mailboxes across the Midwest, from Illinois to Texas – crude explosives that injured six and shook the heartland.

The amiable, baby-faced junior at the University of Wisconsin-Stout smiled goofily as he was hauled away by FBI agents, leaving family, friends, and the nation wondering how he was capable of such violence.

“He seemed like the all-American boy,” said Katie Markham, who went to high school with Helder in their tiny, “Prairie Home Companion”-like hometown of Pine Island, Minn. “He was friendly. He was smart. He had a lot of good things going for him.”

Markham, daughter of the mayor, and fellow neighbors remember Helder as a mellow, level-headed kid who played football, was a member of the wrestling team, and sang in the choir.

“He never got on anybody’s bad side,” said another former classmate, Wendy Ferguson. “He was liked by everybody and got along with everybody.”

The manhunt for a mad bomber has ended. But the search has begun for an explanation of a nice kid’s bizarre behavior – he mapped out targets with a “happy face” diagram and wrote a ranting manifesto on government control.

One strong possibility is mental illness. “People like this . . . can be very bright and very kind and appear to other people to be normal, while they’re quietly crazy,” said Dr. Harold Bursztajn, a forensic psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School.

Few clues have emerged from Helder’s past. Josh Scott, who worked with Helder in a grocery store while they were in high school, saw a change in his friend when the two met a couple years later at a benefit concert for a public library.

The once clean-cut Helder, then playing guitar in a punk band, Apathy, had let his blond hair grow long and wore a T-shirt touting Nirvana, whose lead singer, Kurt Cobain, killed himself in 1994.

“He had transformed into a grunge rocker, obsessed with Kurt Cobain. He was almost a copy of Cobain,” Scott said.

Sara Brown, who dated Helder for about 18 months until last year, and James Devine, his roommate, both told reporters that he had talked about trying “astral projection,” or out-of-body experiences.

Helder had a run-in with the law last September, when he was charged with having a marijuana smoking device during a loud party at his apartment. He told the officer who busted him that government is “too involved in our lives.”

By late April, two art teachers at the University of Wisconsin-Stout reported that Helder had been absent for three to four weeks. A staff member telephoned Helder, who told her “he just wanted some time off, all was fine, and he would resume classes,” said college spokesman John Enger.

But Helder “seemed nervous,” the staffer reported. “My sense is something strange is going on.”

She was right.

Helder soon took off, telling his roommate he was going to a party. Last weekend, mailbox bombs injured six people in Iowa and Illinois. Helder left a message for Devine to “check the news and act accordingly.”

Then his adoptive dad, Cameron Helder, received his son’s eerie, rambling, manifesto, called “Life On Earth,” postmarked in Omaha. The father finally heard from Helder, who telephoned a friend.

“I may have to blow myself away,” Helder told his alarmed dad.

Devine, his roommate, looked under Helder’s bed and found a stash of nails, paper clips, gunpowder and receipts for pipe casings.

When the FBI caught up with Helder, speeding from cops on Interstate 80 near Reno, Nev., the youth held a shotgun to his head.

When Helder finally surrendered, he politely shook the hand of a sheriff, and seemed as dazzled as a little boy with the agents’ weapons.

“Mom, do you think I’ll go to jail for this?” he asked his mother over the phone. Helder faces a possible life sentence.

Clinton Van Zandt, the former FBI profiler who helped identify Ted Kaczynski as the Unabomber, said of Helder: “He seems to have little or no appreciation for the seriousness of what he has done-like it’s some game or prank.”

But he doubts Helder’s “other side” is a sudden occurrence. That, he said, may have been simmering for years beneath his smiling face.