POLICE: GUNMAN KILLS GUARD AT D.C. HOLOCAUST MUSEUM
Charles Hurt
A crazed gunman exchanged fire with security guards today inside the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington — killing one of them and forcing officials to promptly close down the building.

More: Gunman’s History Of Seething Anger

US Park Police Sgt. David Schlosser said the gunman walked into the museum with what he described as a “long gun” at about 1 p.m.

The gunman — later identified by law enforcement sources as 88-year-old James Von Brunn — and a security guard were shot.

The guard, who was identified as Stephen Tyrone Johns, died a few hours later.

Von Brunn remains in critical condition.

Fox News reported that Von Brunn has apparent links to the white supremacist movement.

In 1999, Von Brunn was sentenced to 6 ½ years behind bars for a hate crime, according to records, which did not elaborate on the details of the incident.

“Never, never, never, trust a Jew. Heil Hitler!” Von Brunn wrote on his Web site.

President Obama Wednesday evening released a statement, saying, “I am shocked and saddened by today’s shooting at the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. This outrageous act reminds us that we must remain vigilant against anti-Semitism and prejudice in all its forms. No American institution is more important to this effort than the Holocaust Museum, and no act of violence will diminish our determination to honor those who were lost by building a more peaceful and tolerant world.

“Today, we have lost a courageous security guard who stood watch at this place of solemn remembrance. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this painful time.”

The museum, located just off the National Mall near the Washington Monument, is a popular tourist attraction.

The museum normally has heavy security, with guards positioned both inside and outside the sprawling building.

All visitors are required to pass through metal detectors at the entrance and all bags are screened.

Schlosser said SWAT teams were doing a secondary sweep of the building, but they didn’t believe there was another gunman.

Witnesses said they were terrified.

Mark Lippert, of Lasalle, Ill., said he was at the museum when he heard several loud pops and saw several schoolchildren running toward him, three with horrified looks on their faces.

He said when he saw the kid’s faces, he knew someone had been shot.

Sandy Perkins of Massachusetts said her daughter, Abigail, called her shortly after the shooting.

The teen was on a school trip to the museum and told her mother students heard several shots before they were told to leave the building.

Abigail said some of her friends from Holton Richmond Middle School in Danvers, Mass., were very shaken, but all were otherwise fine, Sandy Perkins said.

Linda Elston, who is visiting the museum from Nevada City, Calif., said she was on the lower level of the museum watching a film when she and others were told to evacuate.

“It was totally full of people,” Elston said. “It took us a while to get out.”

Elston said she didn’t hear any shots and didn’t know why there was an evacuation.

The experience left her feeling “a little anxious,” she said.