Florida Teen Wrote Note Before Crash
The 15-year-old student pilot who crashed a small plane into a skyscraper wrote a note expressing sympathy for Osama bin Laden and support for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, police said today.

The short, handwritten suicide note found in Charles J. Bishop's pocket said he acted alone, Tampa Police Chief Bennie R. Holder said. The high school freshman had few friends and no apparent terrorist ties, Holder said.

"Bishop can best be described as a young man who had very few friends and was very much a loner," Holder said. "From his actions, we can assume he was a very troubled young man."

Bishop crashed the Cessna 172R into the Bank of America building after taking off without authorization and ignoring signals to land from a Coast Guard helicopter that pursued the plane. Bishop was the only fatality.

Holder said there is no indication Bishop specifically targeted the building or "had any intention of harming anyone else."

Investigators today interviewed the boy's family and said they would search his personal computer for evidence.

Bishop, of Palm Harbor, was told to check the plane's equipment before the start of a flying lesson Saturday, police said. He took off without waiting for an instructor who was supposed to accompany him.

A Coast Guard helicopter pilot motioned for the boy to land but couldn't get a response, and a pair of military jets that scrambled to intercept the small plane arrived after the crash.

"There was no doubt he died on impact," Tampa Fire Department Capt. Bill Wade said.

Fire department officials said damage to the building was limited to the office where the plane hit and small areas of adjoining floors. Most of the building was expected to be open Monday, though there was concern about chunks of the facade falling to the sidewalk below.

Though terrorism was quickly discounted, images of the plane blasting a hole in the side of the skyscraper were chilling reminders of the World Trade Center attacks. Until it was pulled in early today, the plane's tail had dangled from the 28th floor of the 42-story Bank of America building.

In Palm Harbor, police unrolled yellow crime scene tape outside the apartment complex where Bishop lived with his mother, while detectives and FBI agents interviewed family members.

Julia Bishop, the boy's mother, told a camera crew to "get out" when they attempted to film her as she opened her door for investigators.

Bishop's grandmother had taken him to the National Aviation Academy flight school at St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport for a 5 p.m. flying lesson on Saturday, said Marianne Pasha, a Pinellas County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman.

A Coast Guard helicopter caught up to Bishop over Tampa after he had traveled about 20 miles, and the crew signaled for him to land. Pilots said he ignored them; then the plane crashed.

As a precaution, two F-15 fighter jets were scrambled from Homestead Air Reserve Base, 200 miles away, but they arrived after the crash, said Capt. Kirstin Reimann at the North American Aerospace Defense Command.

Only a few workers were in the building at the time of the crash. None was injured.

Sheriff's Sgt. Greg Tita said Bishop had no record of problems with the law.

Derek Perryman, a classmate of Bishop's at East Lake High School in Palm Harbor, about 25 miles west of Tampa, said Bishop often talked about planes with a friend in their journalism class.

After the Sept. 11 attacks, he said, Bishop read a paper to the class. "It was real expressive about how he felt, how disappointed he was," Perryman said.

CHARLES J. BISHOPThe plane's tail dangled from the 28th floor of the 42-story building until it was pulled in yesterday.