Christchurch mosque massacre: 49 confirmed dead in shootings
14 Mar 07:04 PM


Focus: The day after the Christchurch shooting
Disable Autoplay
Cancel Video
KEY POINTS:
• 49 confirmed dead in 'terrorist' sguhootings at two Christchurch mosques
• Seven died at Linwood, 41 at mosque near Hagley Park
• Four people initially arrested, including one woman
• Man, 28 due in court tomorrow charged with murder
• Gunman livestreamed shooting at Al Noor Mosque in chilling 17-min video

Forty-nine people have been killed and 48 more hurt after mass shootings at two Christchurch mosques in the worst terror attack on New Zealand soil.

Nour Tavis said he was in the front row of the Al Noor Mosque in Deans Ave with his friend when the shooting started. At first they did not know what the noise was.

"Then we heard screaming ... everyone panicked," he said. "There was shooting and shooting and shooting ... people were running and all of a sudden you saw them fall."



Focus: Al Noor Mosque survivor speaks
Tavis saw someone smash a window and jump out. "It was the only way to escape," he said. "I followed."

As he and others ran for cover the shooting carried on inside the mosque.

Tavis scaled a 1.5m fence and banged on a neighbour's door — desperately hoping someone would answer and take him in to safety. They did.

"We got in there and I could see another man had been shot, I could see blood," he said.

Tavis then tried to go back to the mosque and help the injured. "There were people bleeding to death ... it was terrible."

Tavis' friend lost his wife in the attack.

"When she heard the noise she wanted to go and make sure her husband was safe," he said. "She got the bullet, her husband got away. She was gone, she was no more."



Focus Live: Survivor describes the hero who tried to take down the gunman
Queen's message to NZ ... and Donald Trump's

The Queen has sent a message of condolence to New Zealanders: "I have been deeply saddened by the appalling events in Christchurch today. Prince Philip and I send our condolences to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives.

"I also pay tribute to the emergency services and volunteers who are providing support to those who have been injured.

"At this tragic time, my thoughts and prayers are with all New Zealanders."

Britain's House of Commons will also observe a minute's silence at 11am (local time) in memory of those who have been killed and injured in the attacks.

US president Donald Trump also sent a message to the people of New Zealand via Twitter after the terror attack.

"My warmest sympathy and best wishes goes out to the people of New Zealand after the horrible massacre in the Mosques," Trump tweeted.



"49 innocent people have so senselessly died, with so many more seriously injured. The U.S. stands by New Zealand for anything we can do. God bless all!"

Wailing as families wait at hospital

Anxious family and friends are tonight pacing outside Christchurch Hospital, waiting for news of injured loved ones.

Wailing and crying can be heard at intervals, as people learn their friends will not be coming home.

"We just got some very bad news," said Mahdi Zougub, as his friends hugged nearby.

"We think our friend... we think he's gone. There's a lot of emotion."

Zougub, 22, said he was on his way to the Deans Ave mosque when a friend called and told him about the shooting. He wasn't allowed inside.

"I could see dead bodies. Now we are just waiting to hear the story with our missing ones. We just want to go in and find them."

Some of the shooting victims have been released and allowed to go home.

One, with a wound on his hand and another on his leg, said his phone and wallet were in the mosque and he had no way to call a taxi.

"I can't believe it," he kept saying.

"My children... I'm just relieved I didn't take them to prayer today."

Armed police remain stationed outside the hospital.

Canterbury District Health Board chief executive David Meates said it had been a tragic day.

"What we have been dealing with today is 48 gunshot wounds that were presented at Christchurch Hospital. So we have had 12 operating theatres that have been operating since this afternoon and will be continuing through until about midnight."

Patients' gunshot injuries ranged from "really critically injured" through to lesser wounds.

"With the size and scale of the operations we are doing today, many of those will end up having multiple operations over the coming days and weeks due to the nature of the wounds they have got."

Meates said a "mass casualty plan" had been activated: "It is something that we plan for and hope we never have to activate, and we have had to activate that today," he said.

"That involves us pulling in surgeons, nurses, doctors, support staff to enable us to respond, and we start deferring non-critical surgeries."

Meates said there had been over 200 family members on site at the hospital today.

"We have been working really closely with the Muslim community, police and other agencies to make sure we have the appropriate support structures in place."

The hospital would accommodate families who needed to stay there overnight.

Man, 28, charged with murder, due in court on Saturday

Police Commissioner Mike Bush said the shootings were "abhorrent". At the Deans Ave mosque 41 people were killed, while seven had died at the Linwood mosque. A 49th person had died in hospital.

One man, 28, had been charged with murder and was due to appear in Christchurch District Court tomorrow morning.

"Two others remain in custody," Bush said.

"Another person was arrested earlier today however that was not related to these events."

Speaking about the victims Bush said: "Our love and thoughts go out to them and all of their family, all of their friends and all of their loved ones.

"We have staff around the country making sure everyone is safe, including armed offenders at all mosques. Police staff have gone above and beyond to protect people today."

Bush said police recovered a lot of firearms from both the Linwood Avenue and Deans Ave shooting scenes.

None of the four people initially arrested had been on any terrorism watch, including in Australia, the Police Commissioner said.

Bush said he has "no intelligence" on a potential attack on St Patrick's Day threat that has been reported. He was not aware of today's attacks being linked to any other terrorist plots.

Police were not "actively" looking for any of the potential attackers now.

Christchurch police had a force of 1000 staff, and Bush said he would expect "everyone of them" would want to be out on the streets now. Additional officers were being flown to Christchurch from Dunedin and surrounding areas.

PM: 'Unprecedented' terrorist attack

Earlier tonight, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern had said the death toll was 40. She said a further 20 people were seriously injured, while Christchurch Hospital has just confirmed 48 people suffered gunshot wounds.

Ardern said it was an "unprecedented" situation and described it as a terrorist attack.

"It is clear that this can only be described as a terrorist attack. From what we know, it does appear to have been well planned. Two explosive devices attached to suspects' vehicles have been found and they have been disarmed."

Those in custody had not been on any terrorism watch list: "It's not a matter of someone having slipped under the radar," Ardern said.

"There are currently four individuals who have been apprehended but three are connected to this attack and are currently in custody, one of which has publicly stated that they were Australian-born.

"These are people who I would describe as having extremist views that have absolutely no place in New Zealand and in fact have no place in the world.

"While we do not have any reason to believe at this stage that there are other suspects, we are not assuming that at this stage.

Ardern said it was obvious the attacks had been planned for some time. Three people were arrested in relation to the attacks, while one other was arrested separately.

Ardern said she could not give any more detail about the alleged offenders.

An Australian-born suspect had been in New Zealand "a relatively short time".

She said she was asking questions about them, including access to firearms, of her officials.

The National Security Threat Level had been lifted from low to high.

The Defence Force was transporting more police to Christchurch.

Ardern said New Zealand was a place of safety where they raise their families.

"Those values will not and cannot be shaken," she said.

"This is a place where people should feel secure."

David Meates, chief executive of Canterbury District Health Board, said Christchurch Hospital and other health clinics were treating 48 patients for gunshot wounds.

The people shot range from young children to adults and injuries ranged from critical to minor.

Twelve operating theatres were currently in use and many people would need multiple surgeries.

There was sufficient capacity and staff at Christchurch Hospital, Meates said.

Four arrested after massacres at mosques

A gunman opened fire at mosques in Christchurch earlier today. Four people are in custody - three men and one woman.

Police Commissioner Bush said "there have been some absolute acts of bravery" in the arrests of the four attackers.

A number of IEDs that were attached to vehicles in Christchurch have been defused by the Defence Force.

Bush said there were multiple casualties - a "significant" amount.

"This is absolutely tragic. So many people are affected."

Bloodied bandages on the road following a shooting resulting in multiply fatalities and injuries at the Al Noor Mosque in Christchurch. Photo / SNPA
Bloodied bandages on the road following a shooting resulting in multiply fatalities and injuries at the Al Noor Mosque in Christchurch. Photo / SNPA
"We don't have the identities of those who have died yet because those places are in lockdown."

He said he would not assume there aren't other attackers.

Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison confirmed the gunman was an Australian citizen living in New Zealand.

Morrison said he was "shocked, appalled and outraged," at the attack.

"We stand here and condemn absolutely the attack that occurred today by an extremist, right wing, violent terrorist.

"[He] has taken the lives," he said, before correcting to: "they have stolen the lives in a vicious, murderous attack that has claimed so many New Zealanders.

Morrison said the attack reminds us about the evil that is ever present and would seek to "strike us out at any time."

The lock down of schools throughout Christchurch was lifted at 5.50pm.

When asked if it was true that a person had been arrested wearing wired explosives, Bush said that person had been made safe.

"We're still working through that but we believe there was a claim but that person has been made safe."

Bush said he was aware that footage of the Al Noor Mosque shooting was on social media and police were doing everything they could to get it removed.

People wait outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
People wait outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
"It shouldn't be in the public domain."

Facebook Australia-New Zealand policy director Mia Garlick said the videos have been taken down.

"New Zealand Police alerted us to a video on Facebook shortly after the livestream commenced and we quickly removed both the shooter's Facebook and Instagram accounts and the video."

He said police did not have conclusive information about the motivation behind the shootings.

He would not call it a terrorist attack but said it did not get any more serious in this country.

"We are currently dealing with an unprecedented situation in New Zealand. It's very grave, it's very serious."

One of NZ's darkest days

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called it "one of New Zealand's darkest days".

A body has been seen lying near Al Noor Mosque in central Christchurch and a second gunman has been seen near Linwood Masjid mosque.

The gunman is believed to be an Australian who has written a manifesto declaring his intentions. In it, he says "it is a terrorist attack."

The Herald has chosen not to report its contents.

Ardern described the event as "extreme and unprecedented violence".

She will be flying to Wellington where she will speak with agents as soon as she lands.

"I'm not currently in a position to confirm the number of deaths or injuries," Ardern said.

"This is and will be one of New Zealand's darkest days."

People stand across the road from a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
People stand across the road from a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
Ardern looked to be struggling to keep her emotions in check as she spoke.

Bush said Police are pouring resources into the Christchurch area.

He said they were also setting up a facility so that people could get phone in and get more information about their loved ones as a priority.

Bush said Defence Force aircrafts in Wellington were ready to fly more resources into the area.

"I want to assure the public we are doing everything we can to make sure there is no more harm to their communities."

There was no indication there were other shooters at large.

The multiple fatalities were at two locations - a mosque at Deans Ave and one at Linwood Ave.

St John said there have been multiple fatalities.

People suffered injuries ranging from minor through to critical gun shot wounds.

A number of helicopter and road ambulances are on standby to provide support, including transporting patients to other ICUs around the country.

St John has deployed resources from throughout the country to provide cover for the next few days.

A Christchurch Star reporter saw a dead body lying close at Palazzo Lane near Al Noor Mosque.

The body has been covered with clothing.

A witness has seen a child lying in the middle of Deans Ave and another man has told the Herald his relative was shot inside the mosque.

It is understood the shooting at the mosque lasted six minutes and that the shooter may have returned to his car to retrieve more ammunition before opening fire again.

Ambulance staff tend to a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
Ambulance staff tend to a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch. Photo / AP
A large cordon has blocked off Strickland St around 3km from the Hagley mosque shooting.

A local man said a white van is at the centre of police focus. They believe a bomb is suspected to be inside.

The police bomb disposal unit is at the scene.

READ MORE:
• Mosque shooting: Christchurch gunman livestreamed shooting
• PM Jacinda Ardern: 'One of New Zealand's darkest days'
• Mosque shooting: Gunman 'had magazines strapped to his legs'
• Witness to mosque shooting: 'The gun shots ... I heard over 50'
• Mosque shooting: What you need to know

A Christchurch woman has reported watching a man being arrested on Harrow Street.

Images captured of the scene show a man being apprehended by a police officer. Two police cars are stationed nearby, blocking off the street.

'I saw people drop dead in front of me.'

A man, who would only be known as Nour, who crawled to safety amid the carnage of the shooting has told Christchurch Star of what happened.

Nour in the front row of prayers when the gunman came in.

"First he shot people outside. Then he came in the front," he said.

He heard the gun being reloaded about three times.

The gunman began shooting in all directions.

"I saw people drop dead in front of me. I was crawling to get away."

"It was hitting the walls," he said.

Nour crawled across the floor of the mosque to a window that had been broken by others as they fled and jumped trough it.

He jumped over a neighbouring wall. He ran around the block and he could still hear shooting.

Mohan Ibrahim described to the Herald running for his life to escape the gunman. He was one of 200 people in Christchurch's Masjid Al Noor mosque when he heard shots being fired.

"At first we thought it was an electric shock but then all these people started running."

Police hold a suspect down on the ground. Photo / Kurt Bayer
Police hold a suspect down on the ground. Photo / Kurt Bayer
He said there had been lots of people killed and many injured.

"I still have friends inside.

"I have been calling my friends but there are many I haven't heard from. I am scared for my friends lives."

He said there had been lots of people killed and many injured.

A man who took in people who escaped from the mosque has shared their description of the gunman.

He was white, aged in his 30s or 40s and wearing a uniform, but he had not been able to ascertain what the uniform was, Oakford Close resident Robert Weatherhead said.

"[They said] 'he had a lot of magazines strapped to his legs'," Weatherhead said.

A man who was in Al Noor Mosque during a shooting says it was absolutely full for noon prayers. He believed many have been killed.

Police at the shooting in Christchurch. Photo / Supplied
Police at the shooting in Christchurch. Photo / Supplied
A woman told the Christchurch Star she lay in her car near the mosque as four to five men came running towards her.

She was unsure if they were gunmen. Moments earlier she heard what she thought was gunfire.

"When the noise got louder I saw four or five men running. I put my seat down and lay down so they wouldn't see me.

"I didn't think I'd live to see this happening in my country," she said.

A young man, who lives near Al Noor Mosque, said he was sleeping when he woke to 20-40 gun shots and a man running into his house with a bullet wound 3 inches into his leg.

The man with his three flatmates, who live on Brockworth Pl, called an ambulance and applied pressure on the victim's leg.

Graphic / NZH
Graphic / NZH
The victim said he had just been at the mosque, multiple shots were fired and fled the scene immediately looking for assistant .

He said the victim didn't see the armed gunman, but heard bullets ringing around.

He said that the victim told him he was almost shot in the stomach.

"I didn't realise something of this magnitude could happen in New Zealand," he said.

The ambulance never arrived so one of the flatmates drove the victim to hospital.

Second shooting at mosque in Linwood

A second shooting happened at a mosque in the Linwood area of the city.

Witnesses said they heard multiple gunshots around 1.45pm.

Mark Nichols, manager of Premium Tyres and Auto in Linwood, said he a gunman ran past his shop around 45 minutes ago.

He heard five gunshots, and he believed the activity was centred around the nearby Linwood Masjid mosque.

He saw two injured people carried on stretchers past his shop. Both appeared to be alive.

"I seen a guy with a gun running up the road. He's been firing about five shots, I think we heard," Nichols said.

"It might have been a shotgun. I didn't get a good look at it, I just cleared off.

"Apparently there have been people in the mosque shot.

"It's not very good, we're in shutdown mode now. It's all cordoned off."

Listen live on Newstalk ZB

Christchurch resident Mandy Rooney was trapped in her car within metres of a mosque in Bishopdale.

She said she tried to get out of the car to see what was going on but was ordered back into her vehicle by armed police.

"They have their guns up and are walking around scoping through them," she said.

"It is chaos. People have been trying to drive away and are just crashing into other vehicles."

Papanui High School, which is north of where both incidents occurred, is in lockdown.

The receptionist said staff were hiding under their desks, and she could not comment on any activity nearby.

A man wearing military clothing has been arrested outside Papanui High School.

Armed police on Langdons Road in Papanui. Photo / Broadcast Media
Armed police on Langdons Road in Papanui. Photo / Broadcast Media
There is a large police presence at the hospital with many armed officers.

The New Zealand National Front has said it the events in Christchurch do not involve the organisation, nor its members.

"The National Front does not condone or agree with this type of wanton murder of innocent people regardless of their religious beliefs.

"We believe in freedom of speech and freedom to worship whatever god you chose."

The University of Canterbury is in lock down. They say people are to stay inside until police give clearance.

Two Christchurch shopping malls are also in lockdown.

Shoppers and retail assistants at Westfield Riccarton and Northlands Mall are being told no one is allowed to leave.

The city centre is like a ghost town as police hunt the shooters.

Heavily armed police, including special units, are speeding around the empty streets with lights and sirens wailing.

Christchurch Mayor Lianne Dalziel said her message to people is to stay away from the central city.

Armed police can be seen on central Christchurch streets. Photo / Jacob Savage
Armed police can be seen on central Christchurch streets. Photo / Jacob Savage
"If you are in the city please stay in the building you are in," she said.

"All Council buildings are in lock down and they're urging all central city building owners to do the same, until advised by the Police they can leave."

'I heard at least 20 [gunshots]'

Benjamin Jellie said he ran outside when he heard gunshots.

"I saw people jumping over the back fence of the mosque into Oakward Close. I heard at least 20 [gunshots]."

"I heard about eight at the start and then it went quiet for about 30 seconds or a minute and then it started again. I heard about eight more and then there was another minute and another eight," Jellie said.

"Those coming over the fence, all adults and including at least three men, were screaming and crying."

He believed the injured were all conscious.

The injured were very quiet, Jellie said.

The Bangladesh cricket team was at the mosque for Friday prayer when the shooting started.

A taxi driver in Deans Ave told Newstalk ZB that a jogger in the park said shots had been fired inside the mosque.

"Police and ambulance are coming from every direction".

The public should not attend Christchurch Hospital unless it's an emergency, a Canterbury DHB spokeswoman said.

"All appointments have been cancelled this afternoon, and no staff or patients are to enter or leave the building."

Air New Zealand is offering flexibility to customers booked to fly to or from Christchurch today, in the wake of the shooting.

The airline will waive any fare change fees, should people need to make alternative travel arrangements.

Air New Zealand is also offering its support to Emergency Services managing the incident in Christchurch.

The events of today in Christchurch are distressing.

If you or someone you know needs mental wellbeing support or advice then call or text 1737 anytime day or night to talk to a trained counsellor.