The state must fight right-wing extremism more intensively
Kurt Kister5-7 minutes 2/20/2020
But not only him. Every citizen must now resist. Against the murderers - and against those who create a murderous atmosphere.

Just watching the video of bourgeois-looking mass murderer Tobias R. telling the world that the U.S. military kills children in underground bases and worships Satan, and you could say, OK, this guy is ballaballa, and there are many like him on Youtube. But now the guy has killed ten people, whom he shot, with the exception of his mother, because he wanted to kill foreigners, strangers, non-Germans and whatever other such terms exist. The murder night in Hanau was racially motivated terrorism - regardless of whether the perpetrator was mentally ill according to medical criteria or not.

Racially motivated terrorism of this kind abounded in Germany in the first half of the 20th century. It grew out of widespread xenophobia in the population, which at the time was directed primarily, but not only, at Jews. First there were individual perpetrators and then groups, who were protected by parts of society and not or only hesitantly pursued by parts of the police, who were often treated leniently by the judiciary as "fellow criminals".

The 1920s and 1930s are not repeating themselves. There is no danger of overturning today; there is no revisionist foreign policy that wants to bring back "lost" country; the vast majority of people live, think and love differently than they did a hundred years ago. Nevertheless, in Germany in particular there is more than enough reason to deal with a lot of what was, because some of what is today is too reminiscent of what was then.

Those "lone perpetrators" in Munich in 2016, in Halle in 2019 and now in Hanau, just like the murderer of District President Lübcke, shot in the certainty that there were many who thought like them - but just didn't act like them. The people these criminals target come from the same groups as the targets of their spiritual ancestors a hundred years ago: Jews, foreigners, representatives of the "system". Added to this are Muslims and refugees in general. A look at the USA shows how quickly mass murder can change a society: the number of shootings there has become so large that they are almost part of everyday life. The president prays, civil society is outraged, and three months later someone else kills 12 people.

Even if that is terrible, there is no reason for resignation, on the contrary. Fortunately, that supposedly homogeneous Germany of the last century no longer exists, because that Germany was responsible for the monstrous crimes that are not bird shit in history. Germany today is a very diverse, often exhausting country, where you meet the future in the same place as an annoying persistence. But this Germany is - despite Hanau and Halle - the freest, the best Germany that ever existed.

They openly join neo-Nazis like the Thuringian leader Höcke
It is precisely this Germany that the murderers are attacking when they shoot at migrants. But not only the killers attack it, but also those who prepare the ground for them. Those who constantly talk about "foreign infiltration", who scorn politicians, the state, the community, who equate lifestyles with illnesses ("left-green filthy"), who constantly try to draw boundaries between "us" and "them" . They deliberately disparage Muslims, such as the polemicist Sarrazin; they break taboos because they want to divide society like the old reactionary Gauland; they openly join neo-Nazis like the Thuringian leader Höcke. These people don't load the murderers' pistols themselves. But they create that atmosphere in which the murderers don't have to feel like "lone killers" - which they aren't.

Yes, "the" state must combat right-wing extremism with all its manifestations much more intensively than before. Synagogues and mosques need to be better guarded while the threat is so great. Prevention also means that large-capacity handguns are no longer allowed to be kept at home by private individuals, not even by sport shooters. This is not a general suspicion against shooters, but the necessary consequence of a number of murders.

Government action, however, is not enough. Each and every individual has a duty. It starts with bad jokes and doesn't end with the unquestioning acceptance of everyday racism. You have to state things clearly, for example: Whoever votes for the AfD puts themselves in the right corner because they also vote for the right-wing extremists that are in this party. This country and its social order, its people, no matter what