www-bild-de.translate.goog /news/2020/news/terror-in-hanau-schiesserei-tote-verchte-rechtsrechte-motive-68909822.bild.html
Hanau: Terrorist Tobias Rathjen used weapons with a high rate of fire | news
PICTURE 13-17 minutes 2/21/2020
Tobias Rathjen (43) murdered ten people for right-wing extremist motives : Terrorist uses extra fast firing weapons
He published a confused manifesto ++ Nine of the ten victims have a migration background
teaser image

Source: IMAGE02/20/2020

02/21/2020 - 10:52 am
The terror night of Hanau (Hessen): Around 10 pm on Wednesday, the first shots were fired in the “Midnight” shisha bar on Heumarkt. dead, injured! Then the killer fled in a black car to the next crime scene: in the "Arena Bar & Café" he killed more people.

It is a bloody, right-wing extremist attack! The shooter: Tobias Rathjen (43). His body was discovered hours later in his apartment in the Kesselstadt district. The German had killed himself and his mother (72). Next to Rathjen was a gun with which he allegedly shot the other victims.

The nine people that Rathjen murdered on his terror tour had a migration background. One of the fatalities is said to be a mother of two (35).

► Rathjen was a marksman and knew his way around weapons. Apparently he purposely used pistols with a rapid firing rate in order to be able to kill as many people as possible in a short time! He is said to have owned at least three weapons – including pistols that the police also use. According to BILD information, the terrorist fired from a Walther PPQ and a SIG Sauer P226, among other things. The latter is also used by the SEK in North Rhine-Westphalia, for example. Rathjen had had a gun owner's license since the summer of 2013 and was a member of a rifle club. The administration of the Main-Kinzig district in Gelnhausen had last checked his suitability for carrying weapons a year ago.

Tobias R. published a crude confession letter on the Internet, peppered with right-wing extremist views

Tobias Rathjen published a crude letter on the Internet, peppered with right-wing extremist views

Photo: private

According to BILD information, the right-wing terrorist left several confused online videos and a grotesque manifesto.

In the 24-page letter, Rathjen said, among other things, that certain peoples who could no longer be expelled from Germany had to be exterminated. He spread conspiracy theories. According to his own statement, Rathjen felt he was being followed and observed.

After the end of the SEK operation at the terrorist's apartment, his getaway car was also confiscated, which is now to be further investigated. Officials feared that Rathjen might have placed explosives inside.

Map: Shooting in Hanau - right-wing extremist attack on shisha bars - infographic

live ticker
This is how BILD LIVE reported at night
In a special broadcast, the BILD reporters summarize what is known so far about the bloody deed in Hanau.

BILD Live from the night Bloody deed in Hanau: 8 dead, 5 injured

BILD Live from the night: bloody deed in Hanau: 8 dead, 5 injured

Source: IMAGE02/20/2020

02/21/2020 - 5:46 p.m

Vigils in NRW commemorate the victims of Hanau
In several cities in North Rhine-Westphalia, the victims of the attack in Hanau were commemorated on Friday evening. Up to 500 people demonstrated in Düsseldorf against right-wing extremist terror. "Our grief is also mixed with anger because those responsible for politics have played down and trivialized right-wing extremism for a long time," said Oliver Ongaro from the anti-fascist alliance "Düsseldorf opposes itself", which had called for the demonstration at short notice.The demonstration started centrally near the main train station and then moved to the Oberbilk district of Düsseldorf because, according to the organizers, many people with a migration background live there. "We want to show all people with a migration background in this country that they are not alone," emphasized Ongaro, who is also the spokesman for the alliance. Small posters said, among other things, "Defend democracy", "Stop the brown terror at last" or "No tolerance for Nazis". Other reminder events took place in Dortmund, Cologne and Bielefeld, among others. Cologne Mayor Henriette Reker (independent) had canceled her appointments at carnival events in order to take part in the "Cologne against the Right" demo on Roncalliplatz.

02/21/2020 - 5:17 p.m

Pope expresses solidarity with victims of Hanau
Pope Francis reacted with dismay to the terrorist attack in Hanau. According to the Vatican, the "terrible act of violence" killed innocent people on Friday in a telegram of insults to Fulda Bishop Michael Gerber. The head of the church takes part in the grief of the bereaved and tells them "his closeness in their pain," wrote Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin on behalf of the pope. At the same time he expressed the hope of the head of the church for consolation for all mourners in Hanau.

teaser image

Photo: Luca Zennaro Pool / dpa

02/21/2020 - 5:15 p.m

Parents of victims receive 30,000 euros in help
The Federal Government Commissioner for Victims, Edgar Franke (SPD), has promised the relatives of the victims of Hanau quick financial help. Emergency aid could be paid out from the fund for hardship benefits within two weeks, Franke told the newspapers of the editorial network Germany (Saturday editions). For spouses, children and parents of the dead, that is 30,000 euros, for siblings 15,000 euros. “It cannot alleviate the terrible suffering of losing one's parents or children. But at least it's a help for the most necessary things that are important at this moment," Franke added. In addition, there are benefits under the new Social Code Book 14, such as the payment of survivor's pensions and the assumption of funeral costs. The families needed support.

02/21/2020 - 2:38 p.m

BILD exclusive: Seehofer calls for a psycho test for gun owners
Federal Interior Minister Horst Seehofer (70, CSU) was deeply shocked after the terrorist attack in Hanau. And he also wants to draw political consequences! In the BILD interview, Seehofer now specifically calls for “psycho tests for gun owners”! "If someone has a firearms license, it has to be checked regularly," the interior minister told BILD. He agreed with the Federal Minister of Justice Christine Lambrecht (SPD). But even before that, i.e. before acquiring the firearms license, a medical report would have to be provided.

Read more about the interview here.

Interior Minister Horst Seehofer in the BILD interview

Interior Minister Horst Seehofer in the BILD interview

Photo: Niels Starnick

02/21/2020 - 1:59 p.m

Is the terrorist spying on a target here?
Images from a surveillance camera that have now surfaced suggest this conclusion.

Read the whole article here.

Terrorist Tobias Rathjen was recorded by a surveillance camera

Terrorist Tobias Rathjen was recorded by a surveillance camera

Photo: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

02/21/2020 - 1:56 p.m

Fire near a shisha bar in Döbeln
After the fire near a shisha bar and a kebab shop in Döbeln (central Saxony), the State Criminal Police Office took over the investigation. Due to the spatial proximity, a political background cannot be ruled out, said an LKA spokesman.

A fire broke out in the shed extension of an apartment building and in the basement of a neighboring house early Friday morning. Firefighters extinguished the flames. Nobody got hurt. The background to the fires was initially unclear. Fire investigators are currently examining the scene of the fire. Arson could not be ruled out, it said.

The police in Döbeln are investigating the incident

The police in Döbeln are investigating the incident

Photo: Harry Hartel

02/21/2020 - 12:43 p.m

Hanau mayor: "The murdered were not strangers"
From the point of view of the mayor of Hanau, Claus Kaminsky (SPD), the racially motivated murders in Hanau should not be described as xenophobic. "Those who were murdered here in Hanau were not strangers," said Kaminsky in Hanau on Friday. In the city, many fellow citizens have a so-called migration background. "None of them are strangers," he emphasized in his emotional statement: "Fellow citizens died." "In addition to the psychopathic part, racism and hatred are the traces of the explanation," said Kaminsky, who was impressed by the worldwide sympathy expressed in mourning for the dead: "We are infinitely grateful for that."

Claus Kaminsky at a vigil in Hanau on Thursday

Claus Kaminsky at a vigil in Hanau on Thursday

Photo: Action Press

02/21/2020 - 12:18 p.m

Attorney General confirms BILD report
Attorney General Peter Frank has confirmed a BILD report according to which the federal prosecutor's office had been in contact with the Hanau assassin last November. He filed a criminal complaint against an unknown secret service organization and expressed that there was a large, overarching organization that controlled many things, "latched into people's brains and then picked up certain things there in order to then control world events". .

According to Frank, the ad contained no right-wing extremist or racist statements. No investigation was initiated as a result of this letter.

The father of the alleged perpetrator had also attracted attention in the past in contact with the authorities through various letters, such as complaints. The man was found at the “opening of the apartment” of the alleged perpetrator on Thursday night. However, he is not a suspect in the investigation, but has witness status.

You can read all the background to the terrorist's complaint here with BILDplus.

Attorney General Peter Frank

Attorney General Peter Frank

Photo: Wolfgang Kumm / dpa

02/21/2020 - 11:15 am

Police remove lettering near crime scene
The URL of the Hanau terrorist's website, which has since been deleted, was sprayed onto the wall of an underpass near a crime scene. The police have since painted over the lettering.

The lettering has been painted over

The lettering has been painted over

Photo: Nicolas Armer / dpa

Found an error in the article? Report now.