Murderer from the center of Bratislava: I don't feel any remorse, isn't it funny? He wrote after the shooting
pst, Pravda13.10.2022 09:40, updated: 17:00
shooting at the castle, Juraj Krajčík
VIDEO: Police at the place where they found the body of the shooter from Zámocká Street

Video

According to Denník N, Juraj K. came home to his parents after the attack, where he exchanged one weapon for another. There was a conflict between Juraj K. and his parents, the killer also wrote a farewell letter. He then left the house with his father's gun. The parents did not call the police.

VIDEO: After the shooting in Bratislava, two people were left dead
Video

Only a few hours before the attack, the shooter published a manifesto against Jews and LGBTI people on the Twitter social network. There were also several posts suggesting that he was preparing for an attack.

"The list of enemies of young Krajčík is unbelievably long, and people from the homosexual community simply had the infinite misfortune of being the most vulnerable target of all available. If the circumstances were favorable to him, he would have started - according to his own plans - by killing in a building where some Orthodox Jews meet and only from there he intended to move to the Teplárna," columnist and security expert Radovan Bránik wrote on the Facebook social network.

The police at the place where they found the dead shooter from...
Strelt's 65-page manifesto, entitled Call to Arms, begins by saying that the Jews are to blame for everything.

"Everyone knows what the problem is, but no one is willing to do anything to stop it. We all know who the main responsible "people" are, whose heads and noses must be cut off, who is responsible for all this chaos. Who is to blame for the uncontrolled increase in non-white immigration to Europe and the US. Who is to blame for the rise of degeneracy, homosexuality, transgenderism, deviance of all forms. Who is to blame for the mass brainwashing of the public through the media, newspapers and now social media. Who is to blame for enslaving us financially. And lately, who is to blame for enforcing some form of total social control... Anyone with eyes knows who is responsible. But still nothing changes - for now. The mindset of our people - and by our people I mean those who already know what is happening and what must be changed, what goals must be met - is still too poisoned by our enemy's propaganda."

  Police / Shooting / Zámocká Street / Read more Shooting in the center of Bratislava claimed two lives, the perpetrator is dead
According to Bránik, "weeks ago, he systematically dealt with the selection of suitable targets for a series of attacks on everything Jewish; According to him, homosexuality was their invention, he even found a piece of the enemy even in today's Russia - more precisely in that part of it, which is said to be managed and controlled by Jews."

Bránik reminded that the attack was not personal, the killer did not know the victim, he only knew the business. "During repeated unobtrusive inspections, he knew his weaknesses, vulnerabilities and also the right time to strike," said the security expert.

The police are also working with the version that he committed the murder with his father's gun. In the past, he was a candidate for Harabin's Vlasť party. Bránik pointed out that the young killer comes from an environment where a hateful narrative was strongly present.

The perpetrator reported the attack himself on the Twitter social network under the nickname NTMA0315. Twitter blocked the account early in the morning, but the attacker was active on the 4chan.org platform.

At 19:39 he published a post with the hashtags #hatecrime #gaybar #bratislava (#hatecrime #gaybar). "I feel no remorse, isn't it funny?" he wrote a minute later.

The attacker managed to escape from the scene. According to our information, the police should have found him in Jasko rad. "2-1, it's not my problem. I could have gone higher, but never mind. I wanted to kill the prime minister too, but I wasn't lucky enough to have his car come," he commented on 4chan last night.

Subsequently, he fulfilled the challenges of commentators, who invited him to put a shoe on his head or to write a date and a sentence on a piece of paper. This method is often used to verify the identity of the contributor, i.e. whether he is not a "troll".

About five hours before the shooting, a 65-page document was published that is full of racist and hateful references. The author calls it a manifesto against Jews and LGBTI people and calls for violence against these communities.

The killer was supposed to wait for the victims in front of the business. Subsequently, according to HNonline, he was supposed to shoot with a weapon equipped with a laser sight. He was supposed to fire eight shots first. He then reloaded the gun and continued shooting with several more shots. In the process, he also injured a female customer, whom he shot in the leg. The reasons for the act are still unknown, but the manifesto shows that he acted out of hatred.

President Zuzana Čaputová honored the victims...
In the manifesto, the shooter mentions the supremacy of the white race, which, according to the author, is oppressed by Zionist organizations. It refers to Matthew F. Hale, who is an American white supremacist, neo-Nazi leader and convicted felon. Hale was the founder of a white separatist group from East Peoria, Illinois.

The author often mentions frustrated white men who, according to him, need to take action. According to him, the enemies of the author's vision of the world must die. "This time the real Holocaust will come," he urged. In the text, he claims that the Holocaust never happened. "But if they did, they deserved it. It's a shame that the work was not completed," he added.

"Reject the 'multipolar order', accept European domination," he mentions in a hate-filled text. In the text, he speaks to lost and sad people without love. “A group of five guys like you, sent straight to Davos during a certain summit, armed with automatic rifles and as many grenades as you can hold. You would do a much better job than 5 men with families and large social circles,” he proclaimed.

The World Economic Forum is held in Davos every year, where the leaders of the countries meet. Subsequently, he devoted himself to mental preparation and planning attacks. In the attacks, he wanted to focus on politicians, journalists, policemen and their families, soldiers, Jews, or ethnic groups. He refers to the books of nationalists and the so-called 'fighters for the white race'.

The killer should also have an account on the social platform reddit.com. However, it should have been blocked because it added instructions on how to make a bomb at home.

The school condemned violence and hatred

The School for Exceptionally Gifted Children and the Gymnasium in Bratislava's Nové Mesto district condemned forms and expressions of violence and hatred. In her opinion, she confirmed that the perpetrator of the tragic shooting in Bratislava was her pupil. She also stated that the student did not express radical or hateful views in class.

"During the student's tenure after transferring to our school, we did not notice any negative expressions on his part, any efforts to communicate in this context, any influence on other students, and he did not express his radical and hateful views even during classes," the school said in a statement. He seemed like a quiet, accommodating and non-confrontational type. "It was his inner individual world that he led on social networks that we only learned about after the fact," school officials added.

The school stressed that it is not identified with any unnecessary death and condemns any form and expression of violence and hatred. "At the moment, the organization of support crisis teams for students and school employees is underway," they explained.

The school administration expressed its sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims. "The whole school is traumatized by the situation," they wrote. The school reminded that it guides its students to freedom, empathy, tolerance and at the same time to condemning any hatred or other forms of intolerance. "So far, we have not noticed any manifestations of neo-fascism, racial intolerance and negative or even violent behavior in the school, which would lead to any form of hatred or to the suppression of the freedoms of any groups, including racial, national, religious or biological groups, minorities," they said. They emphasized that diversity is in the identity of the school, which is the exact opposite of the act that happened.

  victims2 Read more Who are the shooter's victims? A student who worked in a bar and his friend
The school considers the two-year period of distance education, when children were dependent on computer communication, especially social networks, to have a negative impact on the psyche and personality of students. "It is not in our power to control the activities of students on private, undisclosed accounts, as was the case in this particular case," they emphasized, adding that the school cannot replace the conditions of the family environment and the influence of social networks that currently determine today's youth.