Zamaskovaný vrah pozoroval svoje obete desiatky minút. Zastrelil ich zbraňou, ktorú mal vybavenú laserom
13/10/2022, 07:1413/10/2022, 15:16Autor: Jana Šimíčková3-4 minutes 10/13/2022
The killer waited for tens of minutes. Dressed almost entirely in black, with a cap on his head and a veil over his face, huddled in the alcove of a building on one of the busiest streets in the center of Bratislava. Thousands of people, especially tourists, pass through it every day. It leads from the city straight to the castle, which is probably why it got the name Zámocká. In its lower part, there is a business that is sought after by people from the LGBTI+ community.

A masked man stood just a few meters from his entrance shortly after 6:35 p.m. He acted inconspicuously. As if he was watching people in front of the company. After about half an hour, something seemed to catch his attention.

image
He suddenly turned his back to the street more violently, pulled out a laser weapon, cocked it and strode towards the establishment. He aimed and fired. Eight shots first. He then reloaded his gun and continued shooting with several more shots. 

image
Two dead 
At that time, two people were sitting on a bench in front of the business. At first, it seemed that the shooting was not related to them, that they were not the intended victims of the killer. But they were. Two men who were left lying on the ground without signs of life. One was right next to the bench, the other managed to get closer to the entrance, but the killer caught up with him. He also injured one woman, whom he shot in the leg. Shortly after that, he turned and ran towards a nearby park. This is how the sequence of the tragedy, which occurred in the early evening of October 12, was captured by cameras located on one of the buildings on Zámocká Street. It is clear from the recording that the killer, who was found dead by the police, seems to have been watching his victims the whole time. The police are investigating what his reasons were and what triggered the attack. As well as other circumstances of the entire event.

Lots of people
The shooting took place at a time when Zámocká Street is still relatively busy. Just a few minutes before the tragedy, a group of several people with dogs, including a school-age girl, was walking near the killer. They started from the nearby gate that leads to the castle forest park. There are groceries not far from the crime scene, and across the road is the Pálffy Palace, where the opening of the exhibition took place at the time. There were approximately 40 guests who were just leaving. The camera footage captured one of them standing across the street directly opposite the killer. She was waiting for her husband. The moment she heard the shots, she ran back to the palace in fear.

image