4-Toronto Sun

TOWHEY: 30 years after Ecole Polytechnique, gun control has failed

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau lay white roses in front of a photo showing the 14 women who were killed during a vigil on top of Mount Royal marking the thirtieth anniversary of the mass shooting at Ecole Polytechnique, Dec. 6, 2019. (REUTERS/Christinne Muschi)
Thirty years ago Friday, Marc Lepine used a rifle to massacre 14 women at Ecole Polytechnique in Montreal. Another 10 women were wounded.
Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
It was an egregious act of terror aimed directly at women. Specifically, feminists. We know this, because the terrorist himself said so in a suicide note he left behind.
Lepine was, perhaps, Canada’s first Incel terrorist.
It was also a watershed moment where feminism and pacifism converged and fuelled a new gun control movement driven by the passions of aggrieved and the political savvy of the feminist movement. It became a powerful political lobby that has driven change in Canada’s gun laws ever since.
Some of those changes have probably been for the good. Most of those changes have been pointless. Some of them have been harmful. We may argue about which was which, but we must all recognize one fact.
None of the gun control measures enacted since Lepine’s 1989 massacre have reduced gun violence in Canada.
Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
In 1989, the Justice Department reported 218 firearm homicides in Canada – based on police reports which, it notes, tend to over-report homicides. That’s about 0.8 gun murders per 100,000 Canadians.
In 2016, Statistics Canada reported a rate of 0.72 gun murders per 100,000 Canadians – based on vital statistics, which tend to classify fewer deaths as homicides than do police.
In other words, after 30 years of increased gun control, the gun-murder rate is effectively unchanged.
Lepine used a Ruger Mini-14 rifle he bought legally at a sporting goods store. It was semi-automatic rifle, meaning once it was loaded and “cocked,” it would fire one bullet with each pull of the trigger – until the magazine that holds the bullets was empty. It used a magazine that held up to 30 bullets – so he could fire 30 shots before reloading.
Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
The Mini-14 was a civilianized sport rifle based on the M-14 rifle used by the U.S. Army early in the Vietnam War. It was a very popular rifle with hunters, rural and indigenous Canadians. Popular, because it was affordable, easy to shoot, easy to clean and maintain, very sturdy and extremely reliable.
It still is.
You see, 30 years after the Montreal massacre, the rifle Lepine used remains available for purchase in most Canadian gun stores. Similar rifles have been used in a number of Canadian murders, including the 2014 shooting of five Mounties in Moncton.
On the other hand, rifles based on the popular and affordable ArmaLite Rifle 15 mechanism (AR-15) have never been used in a mass shooting in Canada. Yet, there are increasing calls to ban them outright.
Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
Why ban one and not the other? No one knows.
It’s not about reason. It’s about emotion.
AR-15’s tend to be black and scary-looking. Most M-14 variants have wooden stocks and look like hunting rifles. Maybe that’s part of it. Both are equally lethal.
Canada’s gun laws have always been based on emotion.
It’s impossible to argue with emotion. For someone who’s lost a friend or loved one to gun violence, visceral emotion shapes their view of the world. They deserve sympathy. But, their emotion doesn’t make them experts. And it doesn’t mean they’re right.
The federal government has capitulated many times to the emotional demands of gun-control advocates. But those capitulations have never reduced gun violence. Not once.
Now, on the 30th Anniversary of the massacre at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique, there will be enormous emotional pressure on the Trudeau government to go further. To do something. About guns.
But, if Trudeau acts – as he has so far proposed to act – based entirely on emotion, rather than on fact and reason, then his newest gun control measures will be as ineffective as Canada’s past gun control efforts.
And criminals will continue to murder Canadians in the streets.