"1-CNN Ted Kaczynski, known as the ‘Unabomber,’ is believed to have died by suicide, source says Theodore “Ted” Kaczynski, the Harvard-trained math professor who unleashed a deadly bombing campaign from a shack in rural Montana and became known as the “Unabomber,” has died, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He was 81. Kaczynski was found unresponsive in his cell at the Federal Medical Center in Butner, North Carolina, around 12:25 a.m., Saturday morning, the bureau said in a statement. Federal prison officials believe Kaczynski died by suicide, according to a person familiar, and an investigation will be conducted to determine an official cause of death. The news was first reported by the Charlotte Observer.  “Responding staff immediately initiated life-saving measures,” the bureau said in its statement. “Staff requested emergency medical services (EMS) and life-saving efforts continued. Mr. Kaczynski was transported by EMS to a local hospital and subsequently pronounced deceased by hospital personnel.” Kaczynski had been serving eight life sentences after he pleaded guilty in 1998 for sending mail bombs that killed three people and wounded 23 others from 1978 to 1995. The FBI spent nearly two decades trying to track him down, contending with a killer who was making untraceable bombs and delivering them to random targets – the first sent to a Chicago university in 1978, the agency says on its website. An FBI-led task force – which eventually grew to more than 150 full-time investigators – was formed in 1979 to investigate the “UNABOM” case, an acronym made up of the words university, airline and bombing. Kaczynski was arrested in 1996 at a small, remote cabin in western Montana. In 2021, Kaczynski was moved to the federal medical center in North Carolina, according to the bureau. He had been held at Supermax in Florence, Colorado, before he was transferred to FMC Butner on December 14, 2021. Portrayed by prosecutors as a vengeful loner, Kaczynski published a 30,000-word treatise that became known as the Unabomber Manifesto.  In the document, Kaczynski claimed a moral high ground for his deadly campaign, justifying the attacks in the name of preserving humanity and nature from the onslaught of technology and exploitation. “I believe in nothing,” Kaczynski wrote. “I don’t even believe in the cult of nature-worshipers or wilderness-worshipers. (I am perfectly ready to litter in parts of the woods that are of no use to me – I often throw cans in logged-over areas.)” A sentencing memorandum quoted extensively from Kaczynski’s journals, in which he wrote of a deep hatred of people. Since a tip from his brother David led to Kaczynski’s arrest in April 1996, the family has claimed the writings reflected the mind of a paranoid schizophrenic, not a cold-blooded killer. A federal prison psychiatrist agreed, opening the way for prosecutors to drop their demand for the death sentence and allow a plea bargain. Merrick Garland, now the attorney general, oversaw the investigation and prosecution of Kaczynski.  Diagnosed as a paranoid schizophrenic After an apparent suicide attempt in his jail cell before his plea, Kaczynski asked the judge to allow him to fire his attorneys and take over his own defense. He said he wanted to base his defense on his belief that technology is destroying humanity. Kaczynski agreed to undergo tests by a federal psychiatrist, Dr. Sally Johnson, to prove he was mentally competent to defend himself. While Johnson concluded that Kaczynski was mentally competent, she also diagnosed him as a paranoid schizophrenic. The last-minute plea deal was struck just before his trial was to begin. Prosecutors dropped their request that Kaczynski be given the death penalty and asked that he be given life in prison without parole. US. District Judge Garland Burrell Jr., who sentenced Kaczynski, said: “The defendant committed unspeakable and monstrous crimes for which he shows utterly no remorse.” ‘He’ll be closer to hell’ The plea bargain saved Kaczynski from a trial and possible death by lethal injection. “Because of these vicious acts of terrorism and because of the callous nature of the crimes, Theodore Kaczynski poses a grave danger to society and should be sent to a facility where he can be closely monitored,” Burrell said. At the sentencing hearing, Susan Mosser, who lost her husband in a Unabomber attack, urged Burrell to “make the sentence bullet-proof, or bomb-proof, lock him so far down that when he does die, he’ll be closer to hell. That’s where the devil belongs.” Her husband, Thomas, a New Jersey advertising executive, was killed by a package bomb in 1994.  She spoke above occasional sobs in the courtroom, noting that her 15-month-old daughter Kelly had watched her father bleed after the bomb went off. “No, no, no, not my Daddy!” the little girl had cried. “Justice has been done, and Theodore Kaczynski will never threaten anyone again,” Attorney General Janet Reno said in a statement at the time. Kaczynski’s other victims were computer rental store owner Hugh Scrutton and timber industry lobbyist Gilbert Murray. Geneticist Charles Epstein and computer expert David Gelernter were maimed in bombings. Epstein spoke out publicly about Kaczynski for the first time in 1998 after he was critically injured in the 1993 bombing, calling him “the personification of evil,” CNN reported at the time. At a 1998 news conference, Epstein said Kaczynski’s guilty plea and sentence will never give victims a sense of closure, CNN reported. “There’s never closure,” said Epstein – who lost three fingers on his right hand and suffered severe abdominal injuries, a broken arm and permanent hearing loss in the attack. “Every time I look at my hand, it’s still there. Every time I have to have somebody speak up, it’s still there,” he said during the news conference. A prosecutor had called Kaczynski’s brother David, who provided the information that led to his brother’s arrest, “a true American hero.” David Kaczynski, in a statement after the plea, said: “My mother and I wish to reiterate our deep sorrow and regret to the victims…(and) to reach out in whatever way possible to ease their pain and express our love.” Ted Kaczynski had quit a tenure-track position at the University of California, Berkeley in 1969 to build a shack near Lincoln, Montana. He lived there without running water or electricity for more than 20 years. Kaczynski waged his 17-year “anti-technology” bombing campaign from the 13-by-13 foot shack. Along with the deaths and injuries he inflicted, Kaczynski threatened to blow up airplanes. He placed a bomb on one flight in 1979, forcing the plane to make an emergency landing when a fire broke out in the cargo hold. At one point, Kaczynski was able to force newspapers to print his 35,000-word manifesto, threatening to blow up a plane out of Los Angeles and saying he would stop the bombings if The New York Times and Washington Post published it. The manifesto denounced technology and the destruction of the environment. Its similarity to letters he sent to his family alerted his brother, who made the decision to turn Kaczynski in. In 1999, Kaczynski told Time magazine he “would rather get the death penalty than spend the rest of my life in prison.”     "
"2-NYTimes  Before Deadly Rage, a Life Consumed by a Troubling Silence April 22, 2007 In Seoul, South Korea, Seung-Hui Cho’s great aunt, Kim Yang-Soon, said the boy’s resolute silences were a source of worry to his mother even when he was young.Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images From the beginning, he did not talk. Not to other children, not to his own family. Everyone saw this. In Seoul, South Korea, where Seung-Hui Cho grew up, his mother agonized over his sullen, brooding behavior and empty face. Talk, she just wanted him to talk. “When I told his mother that he was a good boy, quiet but well behaved, she said she would rather have him respond to her when talked to than be good and meek,” said Kim Yang-Soon, Mr. Cho’s 84-year-old great-aunt. When his parents announced when he was 8 that they were going to America, their relatives were gladdened. “We thought that it would help the boy gain confidence if he moved to the United States’ open society,” said an uncle who asked to be identified only by his last name, Kim. And yet when he and others heard from Mr. Cho’s mother, it was the same dismal story, a buried life of silence. In church, she told them, she prayed for God to transform her son. By now, the world knows what Seung-Hui Cho became, how on a gusty, snowy morning last Monday at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Va., he massacred 27 students and 5 teachers before killing himself. No one could understand why. On Friday, his sister issued a statement of apology and sorrow that revealed the family’s own bewilderment. “This is someone that I grew up with and loved,” she said. “Now I feel like I didn’t know this person.” Interviews with investigators, relatives, classmates and teachers offer inklings of how he progressed from silence to murderous rage, and show how he meticulously prepared for his final hours. • In Seoul, there was never much money, never enough time. The Cho family occupied a shabby two-room basement apartment, living frugally on the slender proceeds of a used-book shop. According to relatives, the father, Seung-Tae Cho, had worked in oil fields and on construction sites in Saudi Arabia. In an arranged marriage, he wed Kim Hwang-Im, the daughter of a farming family that had fled North Korea during the Korean War. Their son was well behaved, all right, but his pronounced bashfulness deeply worried his parents. Relatives thought he might be a mute. Or mentally ill. “The kid didn’t say much and didn’t mix with other children,” his uncle said. “ ‘Yes sir’ was about all you could get from him.” In 1984, relatives who had moved to the United States invited the family to join them. It took eight years to get a visa. In 1992, they arrived in Detroit and then moved on to Centreville, Va., home to a bustling Korean community on the fringe of Washington. They found jobs in the dry-cleaning business and worked the longest of hours. Dry cleaning is a favored profession among Koreans — some 1,800 of the 2,000 dry cleaners in the greater Washington area are run by Koreans — because it means Sundays off for church and sparse need for proficient English, exchanges with customers being brief and redundant. The goal, of course, was to own one’s own business. But it did not happen for Seung-Tae Cho. He began as a presser — an 8 a.m.-to-10 p.m. job — and that is what he is today. His wife worked in the same capacity until a few years ago, when she accepted a job in a high school cafeteria so the family could have medical insurance. They lived in a nondescript row house in a modest section of town, friendly but not overly sociable. Jeff Ahn, president of the League of Korean-Americans of Virginia, said the family was uncommonly private among the throbbing Korean-American community of about 200,000 in and around Washington. They shunned the more prominent Korean-language Christian churches, and prayed at a small church outside of town. High school did not help Seung-Hui Cho surmount his miseries. He went to Westfield High School, one of the largest schools in Fairfax County. He was scrawny and looked younger than his age. He was unresponsive in class, and unwilling to speak. And that haunted face. Classmates recall some teasing and bullying over his taciturn nature. The few times he was required to speak for a class assignment, students mocked his poor English and deep-throated voice. And so he chose invisibility. Neighbors would spot him shooting baskets by himself. When they said hello, he ignored them, as if he were not there. “Like he had a broken heart,” said Abdul Shash, a next-door neighbor. The Cho family home, the second from the left, in Centreville, Va. Relatives hoped it would “help the boy gain confidence if he moved to the United States’ open society.”Chang W. Lee/The New York Times The Korean community of Centreville is a high-aspiring one, and nothing matters more than bright futures for its children. The area is speckled with tutoring academies — “Believe & Achieve,” “Ivy Academy” — high SAT scores and road maps to elite colleges. The local Korean papers publish lists of students admitted to Ivy League institutions. Mr. Cho’s older sister, Sun-Kyung Cho, went to Princeton and made the lists, but not him. She now works as a contractor for the State Department. When Mr. Cho entered Virginia Tech, which is crouched in the Blue Ridge Mountains of southwest Virginia, his parents drove him to school with guarded expectations. Perhaps he would no longer retreat to video games and playing basketball alone the way he did at home. Perhaps college might crack the mystery of who he was, extract him from his suffocating cocoon and make him talk. • Girls figured somewhere in his yearnings, but always from a distance. In his junior year, Mr. Cho told his then-roommates that he had a girlfriend. Her name was Jelly. She was a supermodel who lived in outer space and traveled by spaceship, and she existed only in the dimension of his imagination. When Andy Koch, one of his roommates, returned to their suite one day, Mr. Cho shooed him away. He told him Jelly was there. He said she called him Spanky. SpankyJelly became his instant-message screen name. He became fixated on several real female students. Two of them complained to the police that he was calling them, showing up at their rooms and bombarding them with instant messages. They found him bothersome but not threatening. After the second complaint against him in December 2005, the police came by and told him to stop. A few hours after they left, he sent an instant message to one of his roommates suggesting he might as well kill himself. The campus police were called, and Mr. Cho was sent to an off-campus mental health facility. After a counselor recommended involuntary commitment, a judge signed an order deeming him a danger and he was sent for evaluation to Carilion St. Albans Psychiatric Hospital in Radford, Va. A doctor there declared him mentally ill but not an imminent threat. Rather than commit him, the judge allowed him to undergo outpatient treatment. Officials say they do not know whether he did. His junior-year roommates mostly ignored him because he was so withdrawn. If he said something, it was weird. During Thanksgiving break, Mr. Koch recalled, Mr. Cho called him to report that he was vacationing in North Carolina with Vladimir Putin, the Russian president; Mr. Cho said he had grown up with him in Moscow. In class, some students thought he might be a deaf-mute. A classmate once offered him $10 just to say hello but got nothing. He hunched there in sunglasses, a baseball cap yanked tight over his head. Sometimes Mr. Cho introduced himself as “Question Mark,” saying it was the persona of a man who lived on Mars and journeyed to Jupiter. On the sign-in sheet of a literature class, he simply scribbled a question mark instead of his name. But he wrote. Those who read his stories, his poems, his plays — they were the ones who wondered. English teachers were disturbed by his angry writings and oddness. In a poetry class in his junior year, women said he would snap pictures of them with his cellphone beneath his desk. Several stopped coming to class. Lucinda Roy, then head of the English Department at Virginia Tech, began to tutor him privately. She, too, was unnerved. She brought him to the attention of the counseling service and the campus police because she thought he was so miserable he might kill himself. During their private sessions, she arranged a code with her assistant. If she uttered the name of a dead professor, the assistant was to call security. Last semester, he took a playwriting class in which he submitted two one-act plays, “Richard McBeef” and “Mr. Brownstone,” both foulmouthed rants. In “Richard McBeef,” a 13-year-old threatens to kill his stepfather. Steven Davis, a senior in the class, said he finished reading the play one night, turned to his roommate and said, “This is the kind of guy who is going to walk into a classroom and start shooting people.” • The first gun he bought was a Walther .22-caliber pistol. He ordered it from an Internet gun site and picked it up at a pawnshop near campus on Feb. 9. Why then? Investigators say they are trying to discover if there was some precipitating event. Evidently, though, a plan had been hatched and was in motion. On March 12, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity, Mr. Cho rented a van from Enterprise Rent-A-Car at the Roanoke Regional Airport that he kept for almost a month. The next day, he bought the second gun at Roanoke Firearms, where he laid out the requisite three pieces of identification: his Virginia driver’s license, his green card and a personal check. He paid by credit card: $571 for a 9-millimeter Glock pistol, one of the store’s best sellers, a favorite for target shooting and self-defense. He took 50 rounds of ammunition. Seung-Hui Cho in a 2002 high school yearbook. He acted, a neighbor recalled, “like he had a broken heart.” On March 22, Mr. Cho showed up at the PSS Range, advertised as “Roanoke’s only indoor pistol range,” $10 an hour. Mr. Cho spent an hour practicing and bought four ammunition magazines for the Glock. Range employees, investigators said, remembered a young Asian man videotaping himself inside a van in the parking lot. Over the next few weeks, he fulfilled the rest of his shopping list. Investigators said he went to the Wal-Mart in Christiansburg on March 31, April 7, April 8 and April 13. During those visits, he bought cargo pants, sunglasses and .22-caliber ammunition. He also bought a hunting knife, gloves, a phone item and a granola bar. He visited Dick’s Sporting Goods for extra magazines of ammunition. On March 28, he stayed at the MainStay Suites in Roanoke, according to Ed Wray, the general manager. On April 8, he spent the night at the Hampton Inn in Christiansburg. Investigators think that some of his videos were shot in this hotel room, because a gold extension cord for a lamp that is visible in one of the images resembles one in the room. All told, investigators calculate that Mr. Cho spent several thousand dollars getting ready for April 16, most of it charged to a credit card. • In the last few weeks, Mr. Cho’s roommates noticed a few new oddities in this most odd man. He cropped his hair to a military buzz cut. In the evenings, he was working out with a certain frenzy at the gym. None of his roommates had known him until this academic year. He was a senior, an English major, and someone who, at 23, was older. Throughout the term, they had not seen him with anyone who might constitute a friend. He ate his meals in the dining hall in solitude, embracing what they took to be a subaltern status they assumed he preferred. The six roommates occupied Suite 2120 in Harper Hall, designed in requisite college bland: a cinderblock common area, three compressed bedrooms, a single bathroom. Sharing a bathroom lets you learn things about your roommates, but not everything. They knew that he took medication but did not know what it was for. He had acne. It was common for him to go to sleep at 9 p.m., unthinkable for a college student, and to awaken at 7 a.m. But lately he had been getting up earlier and earlier, as if there were insufficient time to do what he needed to do. It was not yet 5 a.m. on Monday when Joe Aust, a sophomore who shared Mr. Cho’s room, heard his rustlings. He was already crouched at his computer, where, from his copious music downloads, he liked to repeatedly play “Shine,” a song of spiritual longing from the Georgia alternative rock band Collective Soul. Karan Grewal, 21, another suitemate, bumped into Mr. Cho in the bathroom. Not a word. Mr. Cho dabbed moisturizer on his eyes and slid in contact lenses. He brushed his teeth. The groggy Mr. Aust went back to sleep. When he got up about 7 to prepare for class, Mr. Cho was gone. • Emily Hilscher, a freshman, lived in Room 4040, near the elevators on the fourth floor of West Ambler Johnston Hall, one building from Harper. Shortly after 7 a.m., she was killed by bullets from Mr. Cho’s gun. The same fate met Ryan Clark, one of the dorm’s resident advisers. Mr. Clark is believed to have come out of his room to investigate the noise, only to stumble into death. Officials say they know of no connection between Mr. Cho and Ms. Hilscher, and remain baffled about why he began there and why he chose not to end there. “The biggest thing for us is Location One,” a law enforcement official said. “Why Location One? Why did he stop at two killings there?” The campus police received a 911 call at 7:15, when the rest of the campus was still opening its eyes, the thousands of students who commuted to school not yet on the grounds. Classes had not begun, and the campus was not alerted to the dormitory killings. The university police quickly picked up some information, and the nature of it led them to make a decision and follow a trail. Ms. Hilscher’s roommate, Heather Haugh, had shown up at 7:30 to meet her and accompany her to class. Instead, she encountered the campus police. One of the things she told them was that Ms. Hilscher had a boyfriend, Karl D. Thornhill, a senior at nearby Radford University; Ms. Hilscher had spent the weekend with him at his off-campus townhouse, and he had dropped her off at her dorm that morning. Ms. Haugh also told them that Mr. Thornhill had guns and had been shooting them at a range two weeks earlier. Based on what she said, the police concluded that they had the most clichéd script of all — the lovers’ quarrel. They went looking for Mr. Thornhill, and found him on the highway, driving home from a class. They pulled him over and started interrogating him. But he was the wrong man, and the police were at the wrong place. • That gave Mr. Cho time, and he had uses for it. The police know he returned to his dorm room because he accessed photo files there. He harbored messages of hate, and now was when he chose to offer them to the world. He assembled a package, and in it were QuickTime videos of himself, 43 photographs and an 1,800-word statement outlining his place in a world he saw arrayed against him. Many of the snapshots were of him brandishing guns — at nothing, at the camera, at himself. One showed him with a hammer. There was a photo of bullets standing lined up as if soldiers awaiting inspection. His rage was brutally transparent in his multimedia screed and suicide note. He ranted against hedonism and trust funds, against high-class taste for vodka and cognac. He praised the Columbine High School killers as martyrs, and styled himself a Christ figure. He said, “You have vandalized my heart, raped my soul and torched my conscience.” “You had a hundred billion chances and ways to have avoided today,” he said. “But you decided to spill my blood. You forced me into a corner and gave me only one option. The decision was yours. Now you have blood on your hands that will never wash off.” He took his package to the small post office a few blocks from the main gates of campus and arranged with the postal clerk to send it by overnight mail to NBC in New York. The postage was $14.40. It was time-stamped at 9:01 a.m. Then, investigators say, he went back to the dorm to arm himself. • At 9:26 a.m., the university issued this e-mail message to the campus: “A shooting incident occurred at West Ambler Johnston earlier this morning. Police are on the scene and are investigating. The university community is urged to be cautious and are asked to contact Virginia Tech Police if you observe anything suspicious or with information on the case.” By then, though, the calculus of the day had already set in motion the next sequence, and there was nothing to stand in its way. • Norris Hall is a brown, cavernous, L-shaped classroom building situated across the drill field on the other side of campus from Harper Hall. It can be walked from Harper Hall in less than 15 minutes. Sometime around 9:30, Mr. Cho stepped inside Norris Hall. He was wearing cargo pants, a sweatshirt, an ammunition vest and a maroon cap, the school color. He carried a backpack — a receipt for one of the guns stuffed inside — and he was carrying chains and some knives. On one arm was inscribed Ax Ismael, a name whose significance has not been determined but might be a Biblical allusion. He unfurled the chains and wrapped them around the interior handles of the doors. The entrance secured, he mounted the stairs to the second floor and the classrooms. Second period had begun. • The stairs he took emptied into the short end of the L, where there were seven classrooms. Two were vacant, and five were in session: Rooms 204, 205, 206, 207, 211. Gun drawn, he forged into four of them. Inside of 10 to 15 minutes, forensics evidence concluded, he fired more than 175 rounds in killing 30 people, the worst slaughter of its kind in the history of the country. • The first police officers on the scene forced their way in by blasting open the front doors with a shotgun. That blast, investigators believe, alerted Mr. Cho that he had time for only one more shot. They found his body sprawled in the stairwell. He had turned one of his guns around and shot himself. The officers shouted, “Shooter down! Shooter down! Black tag!” Black tag is police code for dead. And that was all the killing there would be at one mountainside college campus on one awful Monday. In death, Seung-Hui Cho finally spoke, but it was through the QuickTime videos received by NBC and broadcast on Wednesday. A pastor at a Korean church in Centreville watched the tapes on television with his family. He told the Seoul newspaper JoongAng Ilbo, “All my family said that was not the Seung-Hui we knew. It was the first time we saw him speaking in full sentences.” A correction was made on  April 24, 2007 :  A front-page article on Sunday about the troubled life of Seung-Hui Cho, the gunman in the Virginia Tech massacre, misspelled the name of the roommate of Emily Hilscher, who was shot to death in a campus dormitory. She is Heather Haugh, not Haughn. A correction was made on  April 25, 2007 :  An article on Friday about the massacre at Virginia Tech included erroneous information from a law enforcement official about the origin of chains the gunman, Seung-Hui Cho, used to secure doors in a classroom building where most of the killings took place. (The error was repeated in a front-page article on Sunday about Mr. Cho’s life.) Although officials now say the chains were not bought at Home Depot, they have declined to say where the chains were obtained. How we handle corrections Reporting was contributed by Choe Sang-Hun from Seoul, South Korea; Sarah Abruzzese, Serge F. Kovaleski and Katie Zezima from Blacksburg, Va.; Cara Buckley and Suevon Lee from Fairfax County, Va.; and William K. Rashbaum from New York."
"3-CNN  Alleged cop-killer details threats to LAPD and why he was driven to violence Fired cop's 'last resort' manifesto 02:37 - Source: CNN Alleged cop killer Christopher Jordan Dorner published an 11-page manifesto, apparently seeking to explain or justify murder. Dorner, a former police officer and trained marksman, is now being hunted by police in Los Angeles and across Southern California. They say he’s already taken three lives, including that of the daughter of a police chief he felt had wronged him. Targeting the children and spouses of officers is one of many specific threats Dorner makes. Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck addressed the manifesto at a news conference on Thursday when a reporter commented that Dorner was blaming the LAPD for his actions. “You’re talking about a homicide suspect who has committed atrocious crimes. If you want to give any attribution to his ramblings on the Internet, go right ahead, but I do not.” Following are excerpts from the manifesto, with detail and analysis to put it in as much perspective as we can. We’ve replaced slurs and curse words with asterisks; Dorner spelled them out. We have not corrected his spelling and grammatical errors.  “I know most of you who personally know me are in disbelief to hear from media reports that I am suspected of committing such horrendous murders and have taken drastic and shocking actions in the last couple of days. You are saying to yourself that this is completely out of character of the man you knew who always wore a smile wherever he was seen. I know I will be villified by the LAPD and the media. Unfortunately, this is a necessary evil that I do not enjoy but must partake and complete for substantial change to occur within the LAPD and reclaim my name. The department has not changed since the Rampart and Rodney King days. It has gotten worse. The consent decree should never have been lifted. The only thing that has evolved from the consent decree is those officers involved in the Rampart scandal and Rodney King incidents have since promoted to supervisor, commanders, and command staff, and executive positions.” It isn’t known when Dorner wrote this, whether it was before or after the murderous rampage he’s accused of began. It starts as a way to explain himself, to try to justify his actions by saying he felt it was his “last resort.” He used that term in the subject line of this manifesto that was addressed to “America.” It, in many ways, acts as the preface to his story. It is a story that is at times a rambling, angry airing of personal grievances that he thinks led to his firing. At other times, it reads as the grandiose doctrine of a man who believes he is a revolutionary and the last hope to save what he deems to be a police department so corrupt that murder was the sole way to stop the rot. Dorner’s claims of corruption and bias against the LAPD wouldn’t be the first, but his level of detail, the fits of rage, and the blunt and violent nature of how he intends to rectify it – through a murderous rampage – are stark and shocking. - - - - - “Unfortunately after reporting it to supervisors and investigated by PSB (internal affairs investigator) [redacted] nothing was done. I had broken their supposed “Blue Line” … It is clear as day that the department retaliated toward me for reporting Evans for kicking [the victim]” This seems to be the impetus behind Dorner’s rage. Throughout his manifesto, he returns to the actions of one specific officer whom he reported as abusing a suspect, but nothing, he says, was done. He claims the officer and others lied to protect the truth. It seems to be Dorner’s belief that he was fired because of this, and it seems to be the spark for his larger anger toward the department. - - - - - “During this BOR hearing a video was played for the BOR panel where [the victim] stated that he was indeed kicked by Officer Evans (video sent to multiple news agencies). In addition to [the victim] stating he was kicked, his father [redacted], also stated that his son had stated he was kicked by an officer when he was arrested after being released from custody. This was all presented for the department at the BOR hearing. They still found me guilty and terminated me.” Throughout the manifesto, Dorner tries to enlist support for his cause and gives instructions, this time asking the media to cover his case. Timeline in manhunt for former L.A. cop - - - - - “At that point I jumped over my front passenger seat and two other officers where I placed my hands around [redacted] neck and squeezed. I stated to [redacted] “Don’t fucking say that”. At that point there was pushing and shoving and we were separated by several other officers. What I should have done, was put a Winchester Ranger SXT 9mm 147 grain bullet in his skull and Officer [redacted] skull. The Situation would have been resolved effective, immediately.” Dorner says this unrelated incident came after he heard another officer call someone else a “n****r.” Dorner confronted him, but the officer said he’d say it as often as he wanted. Dorner, who is African-American, is very clear in his writing that he should have solved the problem permanently with murder. It’s also a sign that he’s been violent against colleagues. - - - - - “I was the only black kid in each of my elementary school classes from first grade to seventh grade in junior high and any instances where I was disciplined for fighting was in response to fellow students provoking common childhood schoolyard fights, or calling me a n****r or other derogatory racial names. I grew up in neighborhoods where blacks make up less than 1%. My first recollection of racism was in the first grade at Norwalk Christian elementary school in Norwalk, CA. A fellow student, [Jim] if I can recall, called me a n****r on the playground. My response was swift and non-lethal. I struck him fast and hard with a punch an kick. He cried and reported it to a teacher. The teacher reported it to the principal. The principal swatted Jim for using a derogatory word toward me. He then for some unknown reason swatted me for striking Jim in response to him calling me a n****r. He stated as good Christians we are to turn the other cheek as Jesus did. Problem is, I’m not a f***ing Christian and that old book, made of fiction and limited non-fiction, called the bible, never once stated Jesus was called a n****r. How dare you swat me for standing up for my rights for demanding that I be treated as a equal human being. That day I made a life decision that I will not tolerate racial derogatory terms spoken to me. Unfortunately I was swatted multiple times for the same exact reason up until junior high. “Terminating me for telling the truth of a caucasian officer kicking a mentally ill man is disgusting. Don’t ever call me a f***ing bully. I want all journalist to utilize every source you have that specializes in collections for your reports. With the discovery and evidence available you will see the truth. Unfortunately, I will not be alive to see my name cleared. That’s what this is about, my name. A man is nothing without his name.” Dorner’s story of discrimination when he was a child and his initial inclination to use force parallels how he talks about handling the problems with those in the LAPD who he believes have done the same to other citizens. He also begins to talk about his “name” and what it means to him to clear it, a central theme in his manifesto. He wants people to know he is far from the bully he was declared to be at the LAPD for reporting something he thought was wrong. And he begins to detail his plan to clear that name, to justify what he has done and what he plans to continue doing: killing until the truth is made clear. - - - - - “I have exhausted all available means at obtaining my name back. I have attempted all legal court efforts within appeals at the Superior Courts and California Appellate courts. This is my last resort. The LAPD has suppressed the truth and it has now lead to deadly consequences. The LAPD’s actions have cost me my law enforcement …They cost me my Naval career … I lost my position as a Commanding Officer of a Naval Security Forces reserve unit at NAS Fallon because of the LAPD. I’ve lost a relationship with my mother and sister because of the LAPD. I’ve lost a relationship with close friends because of the LAPD. In essence, I’ve lost everything because the LAPD took my name and new I was INNOCENT!!!” Dorner seems to be saying he has exhausted all options to prove that he is not the man he’s been made out to be through his termination. He has lost everything he believes is important. While we may not know what set off this powder keg, his writing gives the impression that he feels he has nothing personally to lose, so he might as well try to fix things by any means necessary. Mood ‘tense’ among officers - - - - - “I’m not an aspiring rapper, I’m not a gang member, I’m not a dope dealer, I don’t have multiple babies momma’s. I am an American by choice, I am a son, I am a brother, I am a military service member, I am a man who has lost complete faith in the system, when the system betrayed, slandered, and libeled me. I lived a good life and though not a religious man I always stuck to my own personal code of ethics, ethos and always stuck to my shoreline and true North. I didn’t need the US Navy to instill Honor, Courage, and Commitment in me but I thank them for re-enforcing it. It’s in my DNA. Self Preservation is no longer important to me. I do not fear death as I died long ago on 1/2/09. I was told by my mother that sometimes bad things happen to good people. I refuse to accept that. From 2/05 to 1/09 I saw some of the most vile things humans can inflict on others as a police officer in Los Angeles. Unfortunately, it wasn’t in the streets of LA. It was in the confounds of LAPD police stations and shops (cruisers). The enemy combatants in LA are not the citizens and suspects, it’s the police officers. People who live in glass houses should not throw stones. How ironic that you utilize a fixed glass structure as your command HQ. You use as a luminous building to symbolize that you are transparent, have nothing to hide, or suppress when in essence, concealing, omitting, and obscuring is your forte.” Dorner writes at length that he’s one of the “good guys,” driven to do something extraordinary because of what has been done to him, not because of any innate evilness. It seems he wants to be thought of as a principled, ethical man, not a murderer. If there are “bad guys,” they’re inside the LAPD. Despite all his honorable service and the horrors he’s seen, from the military to the streets of Los Angeles, he calls out the LAPD as the worst of them all, likening them to terrorists. And that is why, he says, the LAPD can try to hide, but he won’t stop. And he’s not afraid to die for it: In Dorner’s mind, he died on the day he was fired and what he saw as injustice began. - - - - - “I’ll be waiting for a PUBLIC response at a press conference. When the truth comes out, the killing stops.” “The attacks will stop when the department states the truth about my innocence, PUBLICLY!!! I will not accept any type of currency/goods in exchange for the attacks to stop, nor do i want it. I want my name back, period.” Dorner has made his brazen threats clear. He will not stop, and the bloodshed will continue unless his name is publicly cleared. He wants the attention of the highest ranks of the department he so despises, it seems, and is intent on getting it. - - - - - “This department has not changed from the Daryl Gates and Mark Fuhrman days. Those officers are still employed and have all promoted to Command staff and supervisory positions. I will correct this error … “The blue line will forever be severed and a cultural change will be implanted. You have awoken a sleeping giant. “I am here to change and make policy. The culture of LAPD versus the community and honest/good officers needs to and will change. I am here to correct and calibrate your morale compasses to true north.” Dorner’s larger crusade against the LAPD seems clearly centered on his personal termination, but he views it as an example of a corrupt culture. He references Gates, the former chief of the department during the Rodney King beating case, and Fuhrman, a detective who called O.J. Simpson a n****r but denied doing so. He seemingly wants to remind people of past problems involving the police and convince them nothing has changed, that the LAPD is still rotten at the core. He makes clear in his haunting statements that he will do what in order to “correct and calibrate” the compass of the LAPD, however high of a body count is necessary. - - - - - “Those Caucasian officers who join South Bureau divisions (77th,SW,SE, an Harbor) with the sole intent to victimize minorities who are uneducated, and unaware of criminal law, civil law, and civil rights. You prefer the South bureau because a use of force/deadly force is likely and the individual you use UOF on will likely not report it. You are a high value target. “Those Black officers in supervisory ranks and pay grades who stay in south bureau (even though you live in the valley or OC) for the sole intent of getting retribution toward subordinate caucasian officers for the pain and hostile work environment their elders inflicted on you as probationers (P-1′s) and novice P-2’s. You are a high value target. You perpetuated the cycle of racism in the department as well. You breed a new generation of bigoted caucasian officer when you belittle them and treat them unfairly. “Those Hispanic officers who victimize their own ethnicity because they are new immigrants to this country and are unaware of their civil rights. You call them [derogatory word for Mexicans] to their face and demean them in front of fellow officers of different ethnicities so that you will receive some sort of acceptance from your colleagues. I’m not impressed. Most likely, your parents or grandparents were immigrants at one time, but you have forgotten that. You are a high value target. “Those lesbian officers in supervising positions who go to work, day in day out, with the sole intent of attempting to prove your misandrist authority (not feminism) to degrade male officers. You are a high value target. “Those Asian officers who stand by and observe everything I previously mentioned other officers participate in on a daily basis but you say nothing, stand for nothing and protect nothing. Why? Because of your usual saying, ” I……don’t like conflict”. You are a high value target as well. “Those of you who “go along to get along” have no backbone and destroy the foundation of courage. You are the enablers of those who are guilty of misconduct. You are just as guilty as those who break the code of ethics and oath you swore.” Dorner calls out different races in the LAPD and puts them all on notice they could be killed to pay for the department’s wrongs. He singles out lesbians on the force as being misandrist, or hating men, though he didn’t give specifics. It seems as if he is justifying each possible murder that could occur. He lays out how he will be judge, jury and executioner for each of them. Nobody is exempt. - - - - - “Citizens/non-combatants, do not render medical aid to downed officers/enemy combatants. They would not do the same for you. They will let you bleed out just so they can brag to other officers that they had a 187 caper the other day and can’t wait to accrue the overtime in future court subpoenas. As they always say, “that’s the paramedics job…not mine”. Let the balance of loss of life take place. Sometimes a reset needs to occur.” Perhaps one of the most startling things is that Dorner specifically addresses us, the everyday citizen. He tells us to let his victims die. Do not help them. He believes that their deaths, their murders at his hand, are part of a great and necessary “reset.” - - - - - “No one grows up and wants to be a cop killer. It was against everything I’ve ever was. As a young police explorer I found my calling in life. But, As a young police officer I found that the violent suspects on the street are not the only people you have to watch … “To those children of the officers who are eradicated, your parent was not the individual you thought they were. As you get older, you will see the evidence that your parent was a tyrant who lost their ethos and instead followed the path of moral corruptness. They conspired to hide and suppress the truth of misconduct on others behalf’s. Your parent will have a name and plaque on the fallen officers memorial in D.C. But, In all honesty, your parents name will be a reminder to other officers to maintain the oath they swore and to stay along the shoreline that has guided them from childhood to that of a local, state, or federal law enforcement officer.” Dorner wants to make clear that this isn’t who he ever thought he would be. But even more than that, he has haunting words for the loved ones of his victims: They aren’t who you thought, either. Dorner believes he is righting the wrongs that nobody else has tackled, and despite what people will say about the victims, Dorner believes they deserve what they are getting. He goes on to quote Thomas Jefferson in saying that it sometimes take the “blood of patriots and tyrants” to refresh the “tree of liberty.” Dorner apparently believes that he is the man riding in with a white hat to fix the wrongs of one of the nation’s best-known police forces. - - - - - “I never had the opportunity to have a family of my own, I’m terminating yours.” This is perhaps the most direct threat, one that police say Dorner has carried out already. He is telling LAPD officers that he will target their mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers and children. He names some of them, including retired officer Randy Quan, whose daughter may have been the first victim. It’s unclear what Dorner means about having a family of his own, but his threats to wreak havoc and commit mass murder are clear. - - - - - “The Violence of action will be HIGH. I am the reason TAC alert was established. I will bring unconventional and asymmetrical warfare to those in LAPD uniform whether on or off duty… “This will be a war of attrition and a Pyrrhic and Camdean Victory for myself. You may have the resources and manpower but you are reactive and predictable in your op plans… I have the strength and benefits of being unpredictable, unconventional, and unforgiving. Do not waste your time with briefs and tabletops.” Dorner doens’t just threaten to kill, he threatens warfare. He is almost inviting LAPD officers, daring them, to try to stop him. It is as if he knows how it will end, and he doesn’t care. He believes he will win the war he is waging, although it will cause his suffering and death just as much as that of the victims he plans to kill."
"4-Global News  Remembering a massacre: Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique  Canada was in a state of shock and mourning 22 years ago, in the wake of a vicious massacre at Montreal’s Ecole Polytechnique. On Dec. 6, 1989, Marc Lepine burst into a classroom at the school, separated the men from the women and opened fire on the female engineering students. Lepine, an Ecole Polytechnique student, had been rejected by the engineering school. He blamed this failure (and others in his life) on women. He successfully applied for a firearms acquisition certificate from the Quebec Provincial Police that October, and purchased a Sturm Ruger Mini-14 semi-automatic rifle from a Montreal store that he said was for hunting “small game.” Lepine sat down at some point in his final days and penned his now infamous three-page suicide note found inside the jacket he wore the day of the shootings. Story continues below advertisement In the note, he says, ”feminists have always ruined my life.” The 25-year-old headed to the school on Dec. 6 armed with a .22-calibre rifle and a knife. At around 4 p.m., Lepine sat in the registrar’s office, rummaging through a plastic bag. A staff member asked if she could help him, and he left the office without responding. He was soon spotted on the third floor, standing in a corridor and holding a black plastic bag with a long object inside. Almost half an hour later, just after 5 p.m., he was down on the second floor, heading to an engineering classroom of about 60 people. He walked in the room holding a rifle, and approached a woman giving a presentation at the head of the class. Students thought it was an end-of-term joke, but Lepine fired a shot in to the ceiling and ordered the men to one side of the room, and the women to the other. Then, he ordered the men out. Lepine asked the 9 remaining women if they knew why they were there. One woman answered “no,” to which Lepine replied “I am fighting feminism.” Story continues below advertisement One woman who would survive the attack, Nathalie Provost, pleaded that they were not feminists. But Lepine opened fire, killing 6 of the women. He then moved out to the hallway and started shooting again. Over the course of 20 minutes, he shot or stabbed 27 people, yelling, “I want women,” before turning the gun on himself. He killed 14 women on three different floors of the school. The police protocol in 1989 called for officers to create a security perimeter around the school. Police were not allowed to enter until after it was confirmed that Lepine had shot himself. Coroner Teresa Z. Sourour noted in her report after the shooting that Lepine had 60 bullets left, and could have killed more people as police waited outside. The attack ushered in changes to police protocol that have been credited with minimizing casualties in the Dawson College attack of 2006. Immediately after receiving reports of an armed man inside the Montreal school on Sept. 13, 2006, police raced inside the building. Kimveer Gill killed one person before killing himself. The 1989 massacre also prompted the introduction of new gun-control measures, including the controversial gun registry, which is still a topic of debate in Parliament. Story continues below advertisement The National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence against Women was established in 1991. With files from Postmedia News "
"5-NY Times  Gunman in Iowa Wrote of Plans In Five Letters Nov. 3, 1991 The New York Times Archives See the article in its original context from  November 3, 1991, Section 1, Page 26Buy Reprints New York Times subscribers* enjoy full access to TimesMachine—view over 150 years of New York Times journalism, as it originally appeared. Subscribe *Does not include Crossword-only or Cooking-only subscribers. About the Archive This is a digitized version of an article from The Times’s print archive, before the start of online publication in 1996. To preserve these articles as they originally appeared, The Times does not alter, edit or update them. Occasionally the digitization process introduces transcription errors or other problems; we are continuing to work to improve these archived versions. Late Friday afternoon when the University of Iowa was slipping into what students here call "the weekend mode," a brilliant former graduate student in physics stood up during a scheduled meeting in his department and began, without a word, to methodically extinguish some of the brightest minds the campus has known. In a melee of no more than 10 minutes, the student, Gang Lu swiftly moved through two university buildings, seeking out six specific targets and shooting each person at close range with a .38-caliber revolver before fatally turning the weapon on himself, the authorities said here today. Four were killed immediately, a fifth died today and the sixth victim is in critical condition. A version of this article appears in print on Nov. 3, 1991, Section 1, Page 26 of the National edition with the headline: Gunman in Iowa Wrote of Plans In Five Letters. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe"
"6-CNN  Chardon school killer TJ Lane: Tightlipped about motive, escape Warden: T.J. Lane scaled prison fence 01:46 - Source: CNN CNN  —  none T.J. Lane didn’t belong to any particular clique in the schools he attended, fellow students said. Those who knew him described him as quiet, someone who was guarded and rarely spoke about his tumultuous family life. But they never would have thought that he’d be described as a killer – until Monday, when students say they saw Lane walk up to a table in the cafeteria of Ohio’s Chardon High School with a gun. Three students – Demetrius Hewlin, 16; Daniel Parmertor, 16; and Russell King Jr., 17 – died. That was on February 27, 2012, when he was a 17-year-old sophomore. Lane admitted his crime, didn’t offer a reason, and was sentenced to three consecutive life sentences at the Allen Oakwood Correctional Institution in Lima. Three life sentences with no possibility of parole. On Friday, he was back in the news after he escaped from the facility, triggering an intense manhunt. He was captured about six hours later, enough time for him to reopen the wounds that his victims’ families are trying to salve. Lane made an initial juvenile court appearance Tuesday afternoon, during which he was ordered to remain in custody. Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine said Tuesday that the suspect would likely be tried as an adult. Schools will remain closed but counselors and other support services will be provided. At school Teresa Hunt said her niece rode the school bus each day with Lane, and he displayed no warning signs of the violence allegedly to come. “He was a really nice kid to her,” Hunt said. “He wouldn’t start up a conversation, but if she talked to him, he would hold the conversation with her. She said her niece noted no personality changes in Lane in the weeks leading up to Monday’s shooting. Haley Kovacik, a friend who talked with Lane a few times a week, said the violence left her and others who knew him in “complete shock.” “He seemed like a very normal, just teenage boy,” Kovacik said of Lane. “He did have a sad look in his eyes a lot of the time, but he talked normally, he never said anything strange.” Yet for all their talks, Kovacik noted there was a lot she didn’t know about Lane. Friends, family remember Ohio school shooting victims At home Lane lived with his grandparents and was slow to open up about his personal life, according to friends. While he was known by many around Chardon High School, located 30 miles east of Cleveland, at the time of the shooting he was there to be transported to Lake Academy Alternative School in nearby Willoughby. The school describes itself as a place for “at risk” students who are “reluctant learners” struggling with problems such as “substance abuse /chemical dependency, anger issues, mental health issues, truancy, delinquency, difficulties with attention/organization, and academic deficiencies.” Lane may have been dealing with his own family problems, according to reports by The Plain Dealer newspaper in Cleveland. Lane’s father, Thomas Lane Jr., has been arrested several times for violent crimes against female acquaintances, including Lane’s mother, the newspaper reported citing court documents. Between 1995 and 1997, the first two years of Lane’s life, his father and his mother were both arrested for domestic violence against each other, the paper reported. Between 1995 and 1997, the first two years of Lane’s life, his father and his mother were both arrested for domestic violence against each other, the paper reported. His father also served prison time for assaulting a police officer and he also was charged with holding a different woman under running water and bashing her head into a wall, the newspaper reported. It was unclear how much contact Lane had with his father. He rarely opened up about his family, some said. “I’ve asked him once or twice, but he never would go into detail. He just said he had family trouble,” Kovacik said Online Recent posts on Lane’s Facebook page show him sharing links to music videos from groups like Grimes and Blood on the Dance Floor, listing his sister in his profile and uploading photos of himself. Yet one long, poetic rant, from December 30, appears to be darker. The post refers to “a quaint lonely town, (where there) sits a man with a frown (who) longed for only one thing, the world to bow at his feet.” “He was better than the rest, all those ones he detests, within their castles, so vain,” he wrote. Lane then writes about going through “the castle … like an ominous breeze through the trees,” past guards – all leading up to the post’s dramatic conclusion. “Feel death, not just mocking you. Not just stalking you but inside of you,” he writes. “Wriggle and writhe. Feel smaller beneath my might. Seizure in the Pestilence that is my scythe. Die, all of you.” After getting three positive reviews, Lane wrote: “much obliged to all who ‘liked’ this. Wrote it myself in class one day …” At his trial At his sentencing, Lane’s behavior shocked and outraged spectators. He unbuttoned his blue dress shirt to reveal a white T-shirt on which he had scrawled the word “KILLER” across the front. He had on a similar shirt during his shooting rampage. Before the sentencing, he addressed the victims’ families using profane imagery and ending with the expletive,”F— all of you.” He then held up his middle finger. “For everyone in that courtroom – the victims, their families, the prosecutors, defense – everyone in that courtroom was just absolutely taken aback,” said Ian Friedman, who represented him at his trial, said late Thursday. Friedman, hasn’t talked to Lane in about a year. At the proceeding, prosecutor James Flaiz said Lane never said why he carried out the attack. “The only explanation I can offer the court is he is an evil person,” Flaiz said. Ohio school shooter shows contempt, no remorse during sentencing At the prison In the 18 months Lane was housed at the Allen Oakwood Correctional Institution, he was disciplined seven times, according to The Plain Dealer newspaper. The infractions ranged from urinating on a wall to giving himself a tattoo, the paper said. He also refused to carry out assignments, losing recreation time as punishment. Authorities said Lane scaled a fence and broke out of the facility, about 90 miles northwest of Columbus. He escaped, along with two other men, about 7:40 p.m. Thursday. All three have been captured. When police took him into custody, Lane didn’t offer an explanation. T.J. Lane back in custody after prison escape CNN’s Lateef Mungin, Moni Basu, Martin Savidge and Lisa Sylvester contributed to this report."
"Oregon Gunman Smiled, Then Fired, Student Says Oct. 9, 2015 Faculty members embraced on Monday as they were allowed to return to Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore. Faculty members embraced on Monday as they were allowed to return to Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Ore.John Locher/Associated Press ROSEBURG, Ore. — The gunman who killed nine people last week during a writing class here had an uncomfortable exchange with the teacher earlier in the week, one of the survivors of the shooting at Umpqua Community College said.  The survivor, Tracy Heu, a nursing student, said she had recognized the killer, Christopher Harper-Mercer, as a student who had spoken up on another day when the teacher, Lawrence Levine, asked for the definition of a vocabulary word. When Mr. Harper-Mercer offered a response, Mr. Levine “kind of corrected Chris,” Ms. Heu, 30, said in an interview at her home this week.  Mr. Levine was among the nine killed by Mr. Harper-Mercer.  Another student in the class, Lacey Scroggins, confirmed through her father, Randy Scroggins, that Mr. Harper-Mercer had engaged with the teacher and said he was a vocal member of the class, which had begun that week.  Christopher Harper-Mercer Christopher Harper-Mercervia Associated Press Ms. Scroggins, 18, and Ms. Heu are among the few survivors from Classroom 15 in Snyder Hall who have described their experiences. On the morning of Oct. 1, Ms. Heu said, she was in a center seat in the front row of the writing class when Mr. Harper-Mercer strode into the room about 10:30, smiling and wearing black clothes and a bulletproof vest.  The gunman’s first shot was to the back of the room, Ms. Heu said — a warning shot, it seemed, before he ordered the students and teacher to get down on the floor and lie on their stomachs. They huddled in the center of the room, noses to the ground, partly hidden below rows of two-person desks.  To Ms. Heu’s right was Sarena Dawn Moore, a woman in a wheelchair who had crawled to the floor, next to her service dog. “He told her to climb back up,” Ms. Heu said. “She tried to climb back up, and he shot her. And that’s when I kind of knew: ‘Oh, my God. It’s real.’ ” There was a spray of bullets followed by a lot of blood, she said.  At one point, Mr. Harper-Mercer began asking students about their religion, though their responses did not seem to determine whether he shot them, Ms. Heu said. She recalled that he had asked two people if they were Christians; she thought that they said “yes” and that he killed them.  President Obama was greeted by Mayor Kitty Piercy upon his arrival in Eugene, Ore., on Friday.Brendan Smialowski/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images “He started pointing out, ‘Hey, you with the glasses, you with the yellow tank top, stand up,’” Ms. Heu said. “And when he did all that, he started asking, ‘What is your religion, do you believe in — are you a Christian?’”  “And that person would say, ‘Yeah,’ ” she continued. “He said: ‘Good. I’m going to send you to God. You’re going to see God.’ And then he’d just start shooting them.”  “I don’t think Christianity or religion had to do anything with him killing people,” Ms. Heu added. “If it really did have something to do with it, when he came in, first he would have asked every single body to say what their religion was before he started shooting them.”  The gunman never approached Ms. Heu. Lying face down in the front of the huddle, the blood of fellow students pooled beneath her, she said, she thought she appeared to be dead. “The only thing I could think of was: Just be calm,” she said. “Try not to make your chest go up and down so high. Because he’s going to realize that you’re still alive and he’s going to make you stand up. And you stand up — that’s it.”  Some residents lined up in front of the airport in Roseburg, Ore., to protest President Obama’s visit to the town on Friday. Others had signs proclaiming, “Welcome Obama.”Steve Dykes/Getty Images Had the gunman asked, Ms. Heu would have told him that she is not a Christian. Her family practices Hmong shamanism.  At some point, the gunman handed a package to 18-year-old Matthew Downing and instructed him to deliver it to the police.  For reasons that remain unclear, the gunman exited the classroom. When the police arrived at 10:44 a.m., Mr. Harper-Mercer stood in the doorway of the building, then moved outside, firing at two officers. Detective Sgt. Joe Kaney and Detective Todd Spingath of the Roseburg police had arrived without bulletproof vests; they fired three rounds. One lodged in the gunman’s side, the police said.  Mr. Harper-Mercer, 26, then returned to the classroom, where he fatally shot himself. Mr. Downing, the student entrusted with the envelope, shouted for a student to kick the weapon — or weapons — away from the gunman’s hand. The police later recovered six guns and copious ammunition from the school.  Valerie Vititow on Sunday near a makeshift memorial to the victims of last week's shooting  in Roseburg.John Locher/Associated Press Ms. Heu sprinted out of the room. She entered a men’s bathroom, she said, but was repelled by what she saw there: a long gun on the ground in the stall for the disabled, and a bag with its zipper open. She ran out of the building; Mr. Downing followed.  “They pointed the gun at Matthew,” Ms. Heu said of police officers who had just arrived. “They didn’t know. He was waving the envelope he had on him. I was like, ‘He’s fine. He’s a student. The shooter told him to give that to you guys.’ ”  At Mr. Downing’s home, his mother said he was too traumatized to talk about what happened. “My son is not a hero,” Summer Smith said, adding that he was just trying to survive.  Outside, Ms. Heu embraced Mr. Downing and another classmate, and climbed into an ambulance. At Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg, she was shocked to learn that she had been shot in her right hand. After surgery, she went home, kissed her three children and took a shower, sobbing as her husband scrubbed blood from her tangled black hair.  After hearing accounts of the day, Ms. Heu still does not have any idea what Mr. Harper-Mercer’s motive was. “I would ask him: Why? Why he did what he did,” she said.  A version of this article appears in print on Oct. 10, 2015, Section A, Page 15 of the New York edition with the headline: Oregon Gunman Smiled, Then Fired, Student Says . Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe Activate now for unlimited articles, courtesy of The University of California Santa Barbara. No payment needed."
"8-NYDailyNews  Omaha school shooter, Robert Butler Jr., wrote chilling message on Facebook before deadly attack Millard South High School student Robert Butler Jr., who shot and killed the assistant principal and wounded the principal during an attack at the Omaha school on Wednesday. (Lincoln Journal Star) The Omaha student who went on a shooting rampage at his high school Wednesday posted a chilling message on Facebook warning of the attack and blaming the school for driving him to violence. Robert Butler Jr., 17, burst into an office at Millard South High School in Omaha during school hours and fired four to five shots, striking the assistant principal and the principal before fleeing in his car and eventually committing suicide about a mile from the school, Omaha police said. Assistant Principal Vicki Kaspar, 58, died at a hospital hours later. The principal, Curtis Case, 45, was reported in serious but stable condition. No students were injured in the shooting. Students gathered outside the school after the shooting. No students were hurt. (Weaver/AP) Butler's friends and family were left dumbfounded by the attack and struggled to explain what drove the boy, described as fun-loving and energetic, to his gruesome end. "It's just unreal," Robert Uribe, Butler's stepgrandfather, told The Associated Press. "I don't know what would possess him to do that." But a rambling message Butler posted to Facebook just hours before the shooting has left some clues. In the expletive-laced rant, Butler, who had been at the school for only two months after moving from Lincoln, Neb., wrote that the new city and the new school had changed him. According to several media reports, the post read: "Everybody that used to know me I'm [sorry] but Omaha changed me and [expletive] me up. and the school I attend is even worse ur gonna here about the evil [expletive] I did but that [expletive] school drove me to this. I wont u guys to remember me for who I was b4 this ik. I greatly affected the lives of the families ruined but I'm sorry." Butler signed off the post with an ominous "goodbye." Local police did not say what kind of gun Butler used or how he obtained it. Butler's father is a detective for the Omaha Police Department, and investigators were interviewing him to learn more about what may have led to the shooting. Students and friends described Butler as a fun-loving prankster who was occasionally scolded by teachers for cutting up in class, but didn't seem angry. "He didn't seem like a kid who would go out and do this," Butler's buddy Jacob Rinke told The AP. "When I first heard about this in school, I didn't believe it. I was pretty much in denial about it." Rinke said he had exchanged Facebook messages with Butler the night before the shooting. Butler seemed fine, he said, and the two chatted about cars. "He seemed fine and everything," Rinke said. "He seemed happy." Vice Principal Vicki Kaspar, 58, left, and Principal Curtis Case, 45. Kaspar died at a hospital after the shooting. Case was listed in stable condition. (Millard Public/AP) With Wire News Services pcaulfield@nydailynews.com"
"9-CNN  Arrests made in connection with Brazil school shooting (CNN) -- Two men have been arrested in Brazil for allegedly selling a weapon to the gunman who opened fire at a Rio de Janeiro school last week, killing 12 students before turning the gun on himself. The homicide division of Rio's police department made the announcement Saturday, the state-run Agencia Brasil news agency reported. The motives behind why Wellington de Oliveira, 23, shot the students and himself remain unclear. Locksmith Charleston Souza de Lucena is charged with helping de Oliveira acquire a gun. After he did a job for de Oliveira, according to police, de Oliveira asked where he could find a gun. Souza de Lucena introduced him to Isaias de Souza, who helped him secure the .32-caliber handgun used in the mass shooting, police said. The origins of a second gun used in the shooting, a .38 revolver, remain unknown, police said. Both men told police that they would never have sold de Oliveria the gun if they had known how he would have used it, Agencia Brasil reported. Ten children remained injured in the hospital, the state health and civil defense secretary said. Those who were killed were buried on Friday amidst heavy commotion. Meanwhile, no one has come to identify and claim de Oliveira's body, Agencia Brasil reported. If no one claims the corpse within 15 days, he'll be buried as an indigent. Thursday's mass school shooting, which is rare in Brazil, has energized the country's anti-gun lobby. Twelve red flags were raised Sunday at a demonstration at Copacabana beach calling for greater effectiveness against weapon and ammunition trafficking. "Where is the ammunition coming from? Where are the guns coming from? Are we safe?" event organizer Antonio Carlos Costa said, according to Agencia Brasil. The principal of the school where the shooting took place said Sunday that he hopes to reopen the school April 18. Cleanup of the scene is scheduled to begin Monday, Luis Marduk said. Also Sunday, the official TV Record posted a suicide note purportedly from de Oliveria, which included burial instructions. The note also asks that his house, which has been under police surveillance after vandals defaced it, be turned into an animal shelter "because the animals are being very despised and need much more protection and care than human beings." Journalist Luciani Gomes and CNN's Marilia Brocchetto contributed to this report"
"11-CNN  The El Paso shooting suspect showed no remorse or regret, police say El Paso, Texas CNN  —  none The man who authorities say opened fire at a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, had a ”stone cold look” when he surrendered, a police official who came face-to-face with him told CNN. “It was a look I’d never seen before, and I’ve been on this force for 31 years,” the official said. “I’ve seen murderers, robbers, nothing like this.” Patrick Crusius, 21, of Allen, Texas, has been charged with capital murder in the mass shooting that left 22 people dead and more than two dozen wounded, according to court records. He is being held without bond. Crusius was arrested Saturday after he drove to an intersection just north of the store. Crusius got out of his car and surrendered to an El Paso motorcycle police officer, El Paso police Sgt. Enrique Carrillo said. While surrendering, Crusius put his hands up and identified himself as the shooter, Carrillo said. While in custody, Crusius has been “cold” in his interactions with police, police officials told CNN. Police Chief Greg Allen told reporters Monday that Crusius has been cooperative, though he’s shown no remorse and “appears to be in a state of shock and confusion.” Criminal defense attorney Mark Stephens has been appointed by the court to represent Crusius, according to court records. Stephens did not immediately respond to CNN’s request for comment. Suspect wrote a ‘manifesto,’ police say Crusius is believed to have authored a racist, anti-immigrant document that laid out a dark vision of America overrun by Hispanic immigrants. With the hate-filled writing, which authorities called a ‘manifesto,’ were the words: “I’m probably going to die today.” The four-page document, titled “The Inconvenient Truth,” was published on the online message board 8chan about 20 minutes before the shooting. The writing is filled with white supremacist language and racist hatred aimed at immigrants and Latinos, and the author says he opposes “race mixing” and encourages immigrants to return to their home countries. Some of the language of the manifesto reflects ideas from President Trump, Fox News and the modern Republican party. For example, the document warns of a “Hispanic invasion” and says Democrats are using “open borders” and “free healthcare for illegals” to attract new voters. The writer cites a fear that an influential Hispanic population in Texas would make the state a “Democratic stronghold.” But he says “the Republican Party is also terrible” because the GOP is, in his mind, pro-corporation, which could lead to more immigration. The author says he’s held these beliefs for years, before Donald Trump became President. Federal authorities are treating case as domestic terrorism The Department of Justice is treating the El Paso mass shooting as a case of domestic terrorism and is “seriously considering” bringing federal hate crime and federal firearm charges which carry a possible death penalty, US Attorney John Bash said Sunday. The shooting appears to meet the statutory definition of domestic terrorism, Bash said, as it “appears to be designed to intimidate a civilian population, to say the least.” “We’re going to do what we do to terrorists in this country, which is to deliver swift and certain justice,” he said. Members of the FBI’s Domestic Terrorism-Hate Crimes Fusion Cell are also investigating the shooting, FBI Special Agent Jeanette Harper said. Harper says the agency executed three search warrants in the Dallas area Sunday morning and forensics processing and review of evidence collected at those scenes have begun. Among the 22 victims, at least eight were Mexican nationals. Mexican Secretary of Foreign Affairs Marcelo Ebrard said Monday the attack was “an act of terror, obviously on US territory, but against Mexican citizens.” What his online profile looked like A Twitter account linked to the suspect shared and retweeted President Trump’s tweets, posted about the border wall and liked memes disparaging Sen. Bernie Sanders and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The account has seen little activity in the past two years. On February 13, 2017, the Twitter account liked a post from an anonymous account showing Trump’s name spelled out with guns. Just a couple days before, the account posted a tweet saying, “#BuildTheWall is the best way @POTUS has worked to secure our country so far!” A Facebook account connected to Crusius had no posts and only had three public friends. A LinkedIn profile under the name Patrick Crusius said he was a student at Plano High School. “I’m not really motivated to do anything more than what’s necessary to get by. Working in general sucks, but i guess a career in Software Development suits me well. I spend about 8 hours every day on the computer so that counts towards technology experience I guess,” the profile said. He also wrote that he worked as a bagger at a grocery store for five months until he lost his mode of transportation. Under “activities” he wrote, “I don’t really participate in extracurricular activities b/c of a lack of freedom.” Suspect’s grandparents are ‘devastated’ According to court records, Crusius has been unemployed for five months and told authorities he was living with his grandparents. In a statement delivered by a family spokesperson, the suspect’s grandparents said they were “devastated” by the El Paso incident and “pray for the victims of this tragedy.” Crusius lived with his grandparents in a house in Allen while he attended junior college at Collin College and moved out six weeks ago, his grandparents said in the statement. He spent a few nights back at the home while his grandparents were out of town, they said. “His drivers license and mailing address were at our house in Allen – that connection has made us the focus of the media,” the statement read. “We are talking only to law enforcement agencies and will not be making further statements to the media.” “We request the media to honor our privacy.” CNN’s Brian Todd reported from El Paso, and Amir Vera and Christina Maxouris reported and wrote from Atlanta; CNN’s Eric Levenson, Helena De Moura, Brad Hodges, Majlie de Puy Kamp and Hira Humayun contributed to this report."
"12-CNN  Letter from shooting suspect reveals possible paranoia By KC Wildmoon CNN (CNN) -- The suspect in last week's deadly shooting at a Binghamton, New York, immigrant center believed he had been harassed for years by undercover police officers, according to a letter received by a New York television station and purportedly written by that suspect, Jiverly Wong. Jiverly Wong included photos of himself along with a letter, his gun permit, and driver's license. Police said they were studying the two-page letter, neatly written in broken English, to determine its authenticity. But the package that arrived Monday at News 10 Now in Syracuse also contained photographs of Wong with two handguns, his gun permit and his driver's license. "There's several things in there that indicate to myself and the district attorney that suggest mental health issues as well as there may be some religious connotation," Binghamton Police Chief Joseph Zikuski told 10 News Now, "but until we get a chance to have mental health professionals, have some religious people look at it to determine what it really means, I'm really not going to comment on it any further at this time." Zikuski added that the emergence of a letter from the shooting suspect was not a surprise to law enforcement. The package was postmarked April 3, the day of the shooting at the American Civic Assocation in Binghamton where Wong parked his car blocking a back entrance and entered through the front door, shooting two receptionists and then more people in a classroom. By the time he was done, 13 people -- and Wong himself, killed by a self-inflicted gunshot wound -- lay dead. Four others, including one of the receptionists, were wounded. iReport.com: Is it time for gun control? But the letter was dated more than two weeks earlier, March 18, indicating a troubled Wong had considered the act for some time.   Learn about other mass shootings in recent history » "I am Jiverly Wong shooting the people," the letter begins followed by an apology that "I know a little English." What follows is details of Wong's beliefs that undercover police had taunted him, tortured him and spread rumors about him wherever he went. The police, he said, forced him to leave California, where'd he'd lived from the early 1990s until 2007, and were trying to force him to leave the country. They entered his room while he slept, he said, watching him sleep, touching him while he slept. And 32 times, he said, police drove in front of him and abruptly stopped. But "I never hit the car," he said. At the end of the letter, Wong complained that he cannot "accept my poor life" and that he assume the role of judge and "cut my poor life." He demanded that an "undercover cop" be held responsible for whatever happened and ended with "You have a nice day." "
"13-NBC  Buffalo shooting suspect appeared to be active in online gun communities Social media companies reacted quickly to the mass shooting in Buffalo, New York, suspending accounts that appeared to belong to the suspect. May 15, 2022, 2:55 PM PDT The suspect in Saturday’s mass shooting in Buffalo, New York, appeared to be actively involved in online communities devoted to guns, ammunition and tactical gear, according to social media posts. The platforms hosting the communities reacted quickly after the shooting, which killed 10 people and appears to have been racially motivated, banning accounts that appeared to belong to the suspect.  Payton Gendron, 18, was arrested Saturday as the main suspect in the shooting. He appears to have livestreamed parts of the attack on the online platform Twitch. Twitch said that it removed the stream less than two minutes after the violence in the broadcast began and that it “indefinitely suspended” the user. A 180-page “manifesto” that senior law enforcement officials said they believe the suspect wrote and posted online cited the racist “great replacement” conspiracy theory and credited the anonymous online 4chan community for his radicalization.  The suspect wrote that he frequented the weapons section of the site, called “/k/,” and the site’s “politically incorrect” section, which is a frequent home to racist and white supremacist rhetoric. Mass shooters have previously cited 4chan as a place they visited. Brenton Tarrant, the shooter in the mosque attack in Christchurch, New Zealand, in 2019, included posting his written plans for the attack to 4chan. The Buffalo shooting suspect appears to have been heavily influenced by Tarrant’s digital playbook and may have tried to replicate it. Ciarán O’Connor, an analyst who specializes in the study of online extremism, said 4chan’s permissive rules have made it a gathering space for extremists: “4chan is a safe space to hate, denigrate others and promote white supremacist ideologies.” The suspect also appears to have been involved in other online communities on more mainstream platforms. On Reddit, a now-suspended user with the same username as the Twitch account that livestreamed the attack frequently posted to subreddits devoted to guns, tactical gear, ammunition, precious metal trading and other topics. The last post was Saturday morning in a subreddit devoted to ammunition.  Several subreddits frequented by the user responded to the shooting on a community level. A community devoted to precious metal trading the user frequented temporarily shut down public access to the subreddit, writing that the moderators wanted to prevent harassment of people who may have interacted with the suspect. A tactical gear subreddit where the user would post also restricted access without issuing a statement. Reddit did not immediately respond to a request for comment.  Officers guard the crime scene outside Tops supermarket in Buffalo, N.Y., on Sunday evening. Joshua Thermidor for NBC News In the online document, the suspect also referred to the Discord chat platform and a community on it centered on guns and armor called “plate land.” In chat logs archived from the server by the nonprofit media organization Unicorn Riot, a user with the same username and avatar as the account that streamed the shooting on Twitch sought advice about combat gear in the “plate land” community. Images that were said to be screenshots of the same account posting in a different Discord server showed the user making what appeared to be a to-do list related to the shooting. In a statement, a Discord representative said, "We extend our deepest sympathies to the victims and their families, and are doing everything we can to assist law enforcement in the investigation.” O’Connor said shooters can use such communities devoted to guns and tactical gear to plan their attacks. “It does seem as though this person could have used these forums to learn how to best approach this act of violent extremism and how to maximize the potential to cause as many injuries and as much death as possible,” he said.  In the wake of the shooting, the role of platforms like Twitch in moderating content has already become a subject of discussion. “The social media platforms that profit from their existence need to be responsible for monitoring. They can in a sense become an accomplice, if not legally, but morally,” New York Gov. Kathy Hochul said Saturday, referring to the livestream. Jared Holt, a resident fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab, said shooters will often strategically choose platforms to use in their attacks. “They often will still seek out a more mainstream platform to try to broadcast and then circulate manifestos on some of the more underbelly-type places,” he said. “Livestreaming provides a unique challenge on the content moderation-front,” he said, because it requires live video monitoring and content detection.  Preventing the spread of the document is another difficult issue for platforms. The manifesto associated with the Buffalo shooting was originally hosted on a Google Drive before it was removed by the tech giant. Chalk writings noting the names of victims are inscribed on Landon Street, near the Tops supermarket in Buffalo. Joshua Thermidor for NBC News Holt noted that moderation of these types of services is a “kind of a delicate balance.” “I don’t know if I would be super excited with the idea of Google scanning everything I put on Google Drive,” he said. Google did not respond to a request for comment. While platforms like Twitch, Discord and Reddit remove content after something like a mass shooting, Holt said the dangerous ideologies continue to fester on the platforms.  “When it comes to the ideology that motivated the violence to begin with, a lot of these platforms are a lot slower to moderate against that," Holt said. Despite the role of tech platforms in the spread of extremist ideology, many politicians and tech leaders are now challenging the power of social media companies to remove content they disagree with. In Texas, for instance, legislators passed a bill that forbids political censorship by tech platforms, opening the door for potential lawsuits. “I would hope this is kind of a moment of self-reflection for some of those platforms to really maybe try to understand how the ideology that inspired the tragedy in Buffalo exists on their platform and whether or not those platforms think it’s appropriate for it to exist that way,” he said."
"14-NYTimes  Man Crashes Plane Into Texas I.R.S. Office Feb. 18, 2010  Smoke billowed from a seven-story building after a small private plane crashed into a building that houses an office of the federal tax agency in Austin, Tex., on Thursday.Alberto Martinez/Austin-American Statesman, via Associated Press AUSTIN, Tex.  Leaving behind a rant against the government, big business and particularly the tax system, a computer engineer smashed a small aircraft into an office building where nearly 200 employees of the Internal Revenue Service were starting their workday Thursday morning, the authorities said. The pilot, identified as Andrew Joseph Stack III, 53, of north Austin, apparently died in the crash, and one other person was unaccounted for. Late Thursday, two bodies were pulled from the site, though the authorities would not discuss the identities of those found, The Associated Press reported. Two serious injuries were also reported in the crash and subsequent fire, which initially inspired fears of a terrorist attack and drew nationwide attention. But in place of the typical portrait of a terrorist driven by ideology, Mr. Stack was described as generally easygoing, a talented amateur musician with marital troubles and a maddening grudge against the tax authorities. “I knew Joe had a hang-up with the I.R.S. on account of them breaking him, taking his savings away,” said Jack Cook, the stepfather of Mr. Stack’s wife, in a telephone interview from his home in Oklahoma. “And that’s undoubtedly the reason he flew the airplane against that building. Not to kill people, but just to damage the I.R.S.” Within hours of the crash, before the death or even the identity of the pilot had been confirmed, officials ruled out any connection to terrorist groups or causes. “The main thing I want to put out there is that this is an isolated incident here; there is no cause for alarm,” said the Austin police chief, Art Acevedo, in a televised news conference at midday. Asked how he could be sure, Mr. Acevedo said, “You have to take my word at it, don’t you?” As the Department of Homeland Security opened an investigation and President Obama received a briefing from his counterterrorism adviser, John O. Brennan, federal officials emphasized the same message, describing the case as a criminal inquiry. Since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the notion of terrorists using small airplanes to crash into buildings has raised a special sort of public anxiety. That was the initial reaction in 2006, when a New York Yankees pitcher and his flight instructor died in a crash in Manhattan. On Thursday the North American Aerospace Defense Command sent two F-16 aircraft to patrol the area before it was determined that the crash was the work of one man. Mr. Stack’s aircraft, a single-engine fixed-wing Piper PA-28-236 registered in California, took off from Georgetown Municipal Airport, about 25 miles north of Austin, at 9:40 a.m., the Federal Aviation Administration said. At 9:56, the plane tore through a seven-story office building at 9430 Research Boulevard, about seven miles northwest of the State Capitol, local authorities said. Flames and smoke engulfed the building, sending big black burned panels to the ground. Emergency medical officials said two men were injured, both in the fire. One was transported to a burn unit in San Antonio. A third office worker was described only as unaccounted for. Aside from the I.R.S., private organizations including an education center affiliated with St. Edward’s University maintain offices in the building, according to address records. The local office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation is in a separate part of the complex. “We can confirm that the building that the plane hit this morning includes I.R.S. offices,” said Terry L. Lemons, a spokesman for the agency. “We have about 190 employees that work at those offices. We’re still in the process of accounting for everyone.” In a six-page statement signed “Joe Stack (1956-2010)” and posted on a Web site connected to Mr. Stack’s wife, the author singled out the tax agency as a source of suicidal rage, concluding, “Well, Mr. Big Brother I.R.S. man, let’s try something different, take my pound of flesh and sleep well.” Though profane at points, the statement articulated grievances with specific sections of the tax code, corporations, politicians and a local accountant. It appeared to have been written with some deliberation. At one point, the verbs “left” and “abandoned” appear side by side, seemingly an editing choice never settled. From relatives, friends and neighbors, a portrait emerged of Mr. Stack as a man pushed over the brink by retirement dreams deferred by a long series of financial setbacks. By the account of Mr. Cook, Mr. Stack was raised in an orphanage in Hershey, Pa., with a brother and sister, leaving the orphanage after high school to attend college. He worked as a software engineer in California, learned to fly and played guitar and piano for recreation. He moved to Austin, playing with a band and at informal gatherings. Mr. Stack met Mr. Cook’s stepdaughter, the former Sheryl Housh, through musician friends in Austin. After eight months of friendship, they dated and married about three years ago. Both had been previously married. Mrs. Stack, 50, listed in records at the University of Texas as a graduate student in music performance, brought her own back story to the marriage, having spent several years in the sway of a religious cult before her parents orchestrated a rescue. On visits to Oklahoma, Mr. Stack took his new in-laws up in his plane. He never spoke of his troubles with the I.R.S., though his wife related them. The family assembled in Austin at Christmas, and Mr. Stack seemed fine, Mr. Cook said. But in recent weeks Mrs. Stack complained to her parents of an increasingly frightening anger in her husband, straining the marriage, Mr. Cook said. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Stack took her 12-year-old daughter, Margaux, to a hotel to get away from her husband. They returned on Thursday morning to find their house ablaze, their belongings destroyed. Officials said the house fire was deliberately set, casting Mr. Stack as the primary suspect. But by that point he was gone, airborne. “This is a shock to me that he would do something like this,” Mr. Cook said. “But you get your anger up, you do it.” Sewell Chan contributed reporting from Washington. A version of this article appears in print on Feb. 19, 2010, Section A, Page 14 of the New York edition with the headline: Man With Grudge Against Tax System Crashes Plane Into Texas I.R.S. Office. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe"
"15-NYTimes  Dylann Roof’s Past Reveals Trouble at Home and School July 16, 2015 Dylann Storm Roof Court Appearance Dylann Storm Roof, 21, charged with killing nine black parishioners in a Charleston, S.C., church last month, appeared in a South Carolina court on Thursday. Dylann Storm Roof, 21, charged with killing nine black parishioners in a Charleston, S.C., church last month, appeared in a South Carolina court on Thursday.Randall Hill/Reuters COLUMBIA, S.C. — The young man accused of the terrible crime was a bug-eyed boy with a bowl haircut who came from a broken home and attended at least seven schools in nine years. Many afternoons, he would sit silently on the curb in front of his roomy yard and, when he tired of it, move to a different curb. He helped neighbors with their yard work, but they still found him strange. Dylann Storm Roof, the 21-year-old white man charged with killing nine black parishioners in a storied Charleston, S.C., church last month, attended solidly middle-class, racially integrated schools, grew up with black friends and came from a respected family, his grandfather a well-known local lawyer. But court records suggest that his divorced parents struggled with finances when he was a teenager, with his mother being evicted from her home in 2009 and his father’s once-successful business renovating historic homes falling into debt and closing a few years later."
"Poway synagogue shooter sentenced to second life sentence Cheri Mossburg John T. Earnest appears for his arraignment hearing in San Diego on April 30, 2019.  CNN  —  John T. Earnest, who admitted to a shooting at a San Diego area synagogue that killed one and injured three others in 2019, has been sentenced to a second life sentence.  Earnest was sentenced to life plus 30 years in prison in federal court on Tuesday after previously pleading guilty to a 113-count indictment that included hate crime and weapons violations, according to a Department of Justice news release. He was previously sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole following a plea agreement in state court.  Lori Gilbert Kaye was killed in the shooting on the last day of Passover in 2019 when Earnest, who was 19 at the time and armed with an AR-15 style rifle, entered the crowded Chabad of Poway synagogue and began shooting.  Earnest also admitted to setting fire to a mosque in nearby Escondido just weeks before the shooting.  California synagogue shooter sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole  “The defendant targeted his victims because he hated the Jewish community and Muslim community, hatred that has no place in our society and hatred that will never, never win,” said Randy Grossman, US attorney for the Southern District of California following Tuesday’s hearing. “The defendant and his hatred have been silenced. He will spend the rest of his days and die in prison, while he languishes behind bars.”  Prosecutors noted that a manifesto written by Earnest and posted on the internet shortly before the attack was found during the investigation in which Earnest made many anti-Semitic and anti-Muslim statements, including “I can only kill so many Jews” and “I only wish I killed more.”  “All people in this country should be able to freely exercise their religion without fear of being attacked,” said Attorney General Merrick B. Garland. “This defendant’s horrific crime was an assault on fundamental principles of our nation. The Justice Department is steadfast in its commitment to confronting unlawful acts of hate and to holding perpetrators of hate-fueled violence accountable.”"
"Isla Vista Massacre: What Do We Know About Elliot Rodger's Rampage? Just before 9:30 p.m. on Friday night, a stretch of idyllic California coast became a scene of carnage.  May 25, 2014, 9:02 PM PDT / Updated May 26, 2014, 2:12 AM PDT  Just before 9:30 p.m. on Friday night, a stretch of idyllic California coast became a scene of carnage as a gunman opened fire on college students and police, and crashed his BMW through the streets of Isla Vista, a college town adjacent to Santa Barbara. Four were killed, including the suspected killer, who authorities identified as an intensely disturbed 22-year-old, Elliot Rodger.  At Rodger's apartment, which Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown described as a “horrific crime scene,” police discovered three additional bodies. Each had been brutally stabbed to death.  The wreckage, Brown said, was “obviously the work of a madman.”  What do we know about the victims — and what do we know about Rodger? Could anything have been done to prevent the killing?  FOR COMPLETE COVERAGE OF THE ISLA VISTA RAMPAGE VISIT NBC LOS ANGELES   Who was killed or injured?  The six people Rodger is suspected of killing were students at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The three men found at his apartment were identified as Cheng Yuan Hong, 20, George Chen, 19, and Weihan Wang, 20. Hong and Chen were listed as tenants at Rodger’s apartment; it was unclear if Wang was a roommate as well.  Outside the Alpha Phi sorority house, Rodger gunned down Veronica Elizabeth Weiss, 19, and Katherine Breann Cooper, 22. Rodger then drove to the IV Deli Market, where he killed Christopher Ross Michael-Martinez, 20, and then careened through the streets of Isla Vista.  One witness, E.J. Debowski, watched from his porch as Rodger's black BMW barreled toward a skateboarder. He watched in horror as the car slammed into the boarder, identified as Elliott Gee, a UCSB junior. By Sunday night, several of the injured had been treated and released from area hospitals.  Rodger appeared to have been killed by a self-inflicted gunshot wound.  Thousands attended a vigil for the victims on Saturday night, and on Sunday, UCSB Chancellor Henry T. Yang suspended Tuesday's classes and reminded students that counseling was available.  “This is a period of mourning for all of us,” Yang said.  What do we know about Rodger?  Rodger was the troubled but privileged son of Peter Rodger, a film director and photographer who worked on “The Hunger Games.” His stepmother was Soumaya Akaaboune, an actress who appeared in "Green Zone" in 2010 with Matt Damon, and who stars in the French version of the "Real Housewives" television series.  Rodger grew up in London and Los Angeles, and he eventually moved to Santa Barbara. According to a 141-page manifesto/autobiography believed to be his, he became a city college drop-out several times over, and along the way turned from an insecure boy into an isolated man who directed his vengeance at women.  Image: An image of Elliot Rodger and models of the weapons he used in a shooting rampage An image of Elliot Rodger and models of the weapons he used in a shooting rampage are presented at Santa Barbara County Sheriff headquarters in Goleta, Calif., on May 25, 2014.MICHAEL NELSON / EPA "I'm 22 years old, and I'm still a virgin. I've never even kissed a girl," Rodger says in a YouTube video posted last week. "I've been through college for 2½ years — more than that actually — and I'm still a virgin. It has been very torturous," he says. "College is the time when everyone experiences those things such as sex and fun and pleasure. Within those years, I've had to rot in loneliness."  "You girls have never been attracted to me,” he says, adding, “I will punish you all for it."  Could the killings have been prevented?  The father of one of the victims, Christopher Michael-Martinez, delivered a tear-choked plea to reporters about how his son had been killed by the "craven, irresponsible politicians and the NRA (National Rifle Association)."  Each of the three 9-millimeter semiautomatic handguns found in Rodger's car were legally purchased from federally licensed gun dealers.   In April, police visited Rodger after concerned relatives contacted his therapist. But Brown, the sheriff, told NBC-owned television station KNBC 4 that “he convinced them that it was all a misunderstanding.” Rodger admitted that he was having problems, but he planned on leaving school, Brown told the station. “He was able to convince them that he was not a threat to himself or to anyone else.”  Because Rodger had no record of being a danger to himself or to others, there was nothing the police could do, mental health expert Ann Lippincott told NBC's Mike Taibbi. “They absolutely did what they were supposed to do,” she said.  After Rodger’s parents saw his recent YouTube videos, they dialed the police and raced from Los Angeles to Santa Barbara as quickly as they could.  They were too late."
"Information about cookies  The RCMP says it has evidence that indicates the attack that killed a Canadian soldier in Ottawa and resulted in a gunfight on Parliament Hill was driven by ideological and political motives.  Gunman Michael Zehaf-Bibeau, 32, made a video recording of himself just before last week's attack, the RCMP said on Sunday. RCMP Commissioner Bob Paulson said in a statement it was conducting a detailed analysis of the video and could not release it at this time.  Ottawa shooting: Follow all of CBC's coverage Outpouring of emotion as body of soldier killed in Ottawa arrives home in Hamilton A source familiar with the investigation told CBC's Chris Hall that in the video Zehaf-Bibeau appears to make specific reference to Canada's foreign policy as motivation for his actions and that he praises Allah in the recording.   It appears the video was made on Tuesday, the day before the attack, and investigators are expected to make it public in the next day or two, the source told Hall.   The national investigation remains "exceptionally active and fluid," according to police.   RCMP also said they believe a knife Zehaf-Bibeau was carrying was taken from his aunt's property in Mont Tremblant, Que. He had lived there years earlier and appeared to have stored the knife on the property.  Authorities are still looking into the origin of the gun used in the deadly attack at the National War Memorial that left 24-year-old Cpl. Nathan Cirillo dead. Police called it an old, uncommon gun that Zehaf-Bibeau could have also hidden on the property.  Zehaf-Bibeau subsidized his pre-attack activities from his own earnings, saved while employed in the Alberta oilsands, the statement said.   "He had access to a considerable amount of funds. We are investigating all of his disbursements in the period leading up to the attack," the RCMP said.  Harper called incident a terrorist attack  Stephen Harper has called Wednesday's shooting a terror attack, and the bloodshed raised fears that Canada is suffering reprisals for joining the U.S.-led air campaign against ISIS extremists in Iraq and Syria.  RCMP are investigating Zehaf-Bibeau's interactions with numerous individuals in the days leading up to the attack and whether they could have contributed or facilitated it, the statement said.   Ottawa shooting: A day of chaos leaves soldier, gunman dead Ottawa shooting: A timeline of events from RCMP Condolences for Cpl. Cirillo and Warrant Officer Vincent Paulson said last week Zehaf-Bibeau, whose father was from Libya, may have lashed out in frustration over delays in getting a passport. Paulson said Zehaf-Bibeau's mother told police in an interview that her son had wanted to go Syria.  Susan Bibeau later denied that in a letter published by Postmedia News, saying her son told her he wanted to go to Saudi Arabia where he could study the Qur'an. RCMP confirmed to CBC News on Saturday that indeed they had made an error in transcribing the interview, and that Susan Bibeau did not mention Syria on the recording.   Zehaf-Bibeau fatally wounded Cirillo before driving to Parliament Hill's Centre Block to find himself one unlocked door away from Harper and the entire Conservative caucus. He was eventually gunned down inside Parliament by the sergeant-at-arms of the House of Commons, Kevin Vickers.  A harrowing compilation of security video released on Thursday provided a picture of how Wednesday's attack unfolded.  Tours of the Parliament buildings will restart on Monday, and public galleries will be re-opened.   Relatives pay respects to fallen soldier  Relatives and officials are paying their respects to Cirillo this week, as his death has sparked a national outpouring of grief.  Cirillo was standing in ceremonial guard at the monument when he was shot by Zehaf-Bibeau.   Cirillo's family, including his young son, gathered Sunday for a private visitation at the Markey-Dermody Funeral Home in his hometown of Hamilton, Ont., where they were also joined by Ontario Lt.-Gov. Elizabeth Dowdeswell.  The funeral home says a public visitation for the 24-year-old Canadian Forces reservist is scheduled for Monday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.  A regimental funeral for Cirillo is scheduled for Tuesday, and he is to be buried in a field of honour at a Hamilton cemetery.  Gunman Michael Zehaf Bibeau was shot dead after he entered Parliament, and the RCMP now say he had "ideological and political motives.""
"Affidavit: Man admits church shooting, says liberals should die KNOXVILLE, Tennessee (CNN) -- A man accused of fatally shooting two adults and wounding seven others at a Knoxville church told police the church's liberal teachings prompted him to attack, according to court papers.  Jim Adkisson said liberals should be killed because they're ruining the nation, according to an affidavit. Jim David Adkisson told investigators all liberals should be killed and admitted he shot people Sunday morning at Tennessee Valley Unitarian Universalist Church, according to a search warrant affidavit obtained by CNN affiliate WBIR.  Also, a four-page letter police found in Adkisson's vehicle indicated he was motivated by frustration over being unable to obtain a job, authorities said Monday.  Police said Adkisson, 58, of Powell, Tennessee, walked into the church's sanctuary during a children's musical performance and fired a shotgun before being overpowered by congregants and arrested. Adkisson -- who police said wasn't a member of the church -- has been charged with one count of first-degree murder.  According to the affidavit requesting to search Adkisson's home, the suspect told investigators liberals should be killed because they were ruining the country. Adkisson also blamed Democrats for the country's decline, according to the affidavit.  "He felt that the Democrats had tied his country's hands in the war on terror and they had ruined every institution in America with the aid of major media outlets," the affidavit said. "Because he could not get to the leaders of the liberal movement ... he would then target those that had voted them into office."  Killed in the shooting were Linda Kraeger, 61, and Greg McKendry, 60, police said. Witnesses said McKendry, an usher and board member at the church, tried to shield others when he was shot, according to The Associated Press. Video Watch scene at church after shooting »  Four of the seven surviving wounded were still in the University of Tennessee Medical Center on Monday evening. Officials there said two patients were in critical condition and one was "stable." The hospital would not release information about the fourth person.  At a news conference Monday, Knoxville Police Chief Sterling Owen IV said Adkisson left a note in his vehicle before entering the church, thinking police would kill him after the shooting began.  Owen said the letter, signed by Adkisson but not addressed to anyone, expressed hatred for gay people and what he called the liberal movement.  According to Out & About, a gay newspaper based in Nashville, Tennessee, the church was home to several gay and gay-friendly groups and recently posted a "gays welcome" sign "as part of its long-range planning to conduct more outreach and welcome" to gay men and lesbians.  The church, on its Web site, describes itself as a community that has worked for social change -- including desegregation, women's rights and gay rights -- since the 1950s.  The case is being investigated as a hate crime, Owen said.  Owen also said the letter expressed Adkisson's frustrations at not being able to find employment. Authorities also discovered a letter from the state government telling Adkisson he was having his food stamps reduced or eliminated, police said.  Owen said Adkisson has resided in the Knoxville area for three or four years and his last known employment was in 2006. Neighbors told The Associated Press Adkisson had been a truck driver, and Owen said Adkisson has an associate's degree in mechanical engineering.  See map »  "He did express that frustration, that the liberal movement was getting more jobs," Owen told reporters. "And he felt like he was being kept out of the loop because of his age." Video Watch police chief describe latest findings »  Investigators found 76 shotgun shells in the church, Owen said. Three rounds were fired from a 12-gauge shotgun that was brought into the church hidden in a guitar case, police said.  There is "an indication he was not targeting the children," but that has not been conclusively determined, Owen said. iReport.com: Are you there? Share photos, video, accounts  During a search of Adkisson's home, investigators confiscated a handgun, a sawed-off shotgun barrel and books by conservative commentators, authorities said.  The shooting came eight years after Adkisson, according to divorce documents, threatened to kill his fourth wife and himself.  In a 2000 complaint filed in Tennessee's Anderson County, his then-wife, Liza Alexander, said she was "in fear for my life and what he might do." She also claimed that Adkisson "drinks heavily every day, and becomes belligerent, and makes threats."  "My husband, Jim David Adkisson told a friend of mine that one of his options is to blow my brains out and then blow his own brains out (I heard him say this)," Alexander wrote in her petition for a protection order, which she was granted.  The only criminal record authorities have found of Adkisson shows two instances of driving under the influence -- one in California "a number of years ago" and one "more recently" in Tennessee, Owen said.  Authorities have been told that Adkisson was once in the military, a member of the 101st Airborne Division, Owen said.  Lt. Col. Anne Edgecomb, an Army spokeswoman, said there is a record of a Jim David Adkisson who served beginning in 1974. He was released from active duty in 1977 and discharged in 1980. He was a helicopter repairman with the 163rd Aviation Co. at Fort Campbell, Kentucky -- part of the 101st Airborne Division.  Adkisson's military record shows that in 1977 he was demoted from a specialist 4th class to private. Information about why Adkisson was demoted wasn't available.  Neighbors said Adkisson was quiet and kept to himself.  "He never went anywhere. He never had anybody over. Just, it was really quiet. He rode a motorcycle and you know he would go out on the weekends on his motorcycle, but other than that, you never heard from him," Melissa Coker told WVLT-TV.  Coker told the AP that Adkisson had been a truck driver, but she didn't think he'd been working steadily in the past six months.  "He's just a really, really nice guy," Coker told the AP.  Adkisson's landlord said she did not know him well enough to make any comments on his character but said he was a good tenant who paid his bills, according to CNN affiliate WBIR-TV.  Bail was set at $1 million late Sunday.  Police said people were recording videos of the children's performance when the shooting happened, and investigators were reviewing the videos. Information on what, if anything, the videos show of the shooting wasn't immediately available.  Three of the wounded were relatives who were visiting the church for the first time Sunday. WVLT identified the three as Joe Barnhart, 76; Jack Barnhart, 69; and Betty Barnhart, 71, who was treated and released Sunday.  A statement released by the family Monday said: "The entire Barnhart family would like to thank our friends and the community for their calls, visits and prayers. ... Our family members continue to recover and we ask that your prayers continue for all that have been involved in this tragic event."  Copyright 2008 CNN. All rights reserved.This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Associated Press contributed to this report.  All About Crime • Shootings • Hate Crimes"
"Accused mailbox bomber incompetent The man accused of planting pipe bombs in a “smiley face” pattern across the Midwest two years ago was found incompetent to stand trial Thursday.  April 1, 2004, 3:32 PM PST The former college student accused of planting pipe bombs in a “smiley face” pattern across the Midwest nearly two years ago was declared incompetent to stand trial Thursday by a federal judge.  The man, Luke Helder, 22, was ordered to return to the Federal Medical Center in Rochester, Minn., where he will undergo another round of psychological evaluation to determine whether he is a risk to others. U.S. District Judge Mark Bennett could free him if he is found not to be a significant risk.  Helder was caught after a nationwide manhunt in May 2002, when 18 pipe bombs and anti-government letters were placed in mailboxes in Iowa, Illinois, Nebraska, Colorado and Texas. Six pipe bombs exploded in Iowa and Illinois, injuring four letter carriers and two residents.  After his arrest outside Reno, Nev., Helder told authorities that by scattering the bombs across the country, he was trying to draw a “smiley face” on the map.  Bennett found Helder incompetent based on three forensic reports prepared by government doctors. The reports have been sealed by Bennett, who did not elaborate on Helder’s diagnosis.  Helder, who was in court for the first time since his arraignment in June 2002, turned and smiled at his parents several times before and after the hearing, but otherwise he sat calmly through the proceedings. Helder’s parents would not comment afterward.  Helder, a former art student at the University of Wisconsin-Stout in Menominee, has pleaded not guilty to federal charges of using a pipe bomb in a crime of violence and destroying property used in interstate commerce — mailboxes. The charges carry a life sentence.  In the months after Helder’s arrest, his attorney, Jane Kelly, filed court papers declaring her intention to use an insanity defense.  If Helder is declared competent at some point, the federal charges remain and could be reinstated."
"Guard dies after Holocaust museum shooting An 88-year-old gunman with a virulently anti-Semitic past opens fire with a rifle inside the crowded U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, fatally wounding a security guard before being shot himself.  June 10, 2009, 10:28 AM PDT James Von Brunn An 88-year-old gunman with a virulently anti-Semitic past fatally shot a security guard inside the crowded U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum on Wednesday before being shot himself by other officers, authorities said.  The assailant was hospitalized in critical condition, leaving behind a sprawling investigation by federal and local law enforcement and expressions of shock from the Israeli government and a prominent Muslim organization.  Washington Police Chief Cathy Lanier said the gunman was "engaged by security guards immediately after entering the door" with a rifle. "The second he stepped into the building he began firing."  Law enforcement officials said James W. von Brunn, a white supremacist, was under investigation in the shooting and that his car was found near the museum and tested for explosives. The weapon was a .22-caliber rifle, they added. They spoke on condition of anonymity, saying they were not authorized to discuss the investigation just beginning.  Museum officials identified the dead guard as Stephen T. Johns, a six-year veteran of the facility. In an e-mail, director Sara Bloomfield said he "died heroically in the line of duty."  Racist Web site At the White House, just blocks away from the museum, President Barack Obama said, "This outrageous act reminds us that we must remain vigilant against anti-Semitism and prejudice in all its forms. No American institution is more important to this effort than the Holocaust Museum, and no act of violence will diminish our determination to honor those who were lost by building a more peaceful and tolerant world."  Von Brunn has a racist, anti-Semitic Web site and wrote a book titled "Kill the Best Gentiles," alleging a Jewish "conspiracy to destroy the white gene pool."  In 1983, he was convicted of attempting to kidnap members of the Federal Reserve Board. He was arrested two years earlier outside the room where the board was meeting, carrying a revolver, knife and sawed-off shotgun. At the time, police said Von Brunn wanted to take the members hostage because of high interest rates and the nation's economic difficulties.  Writings attributed to von Brunn on the Internet say the Holocaust was a hoax and decry a Jewish conspiracy to "destroy the white gene pool."  "At Auschwitz the 'Holocaust' myth became Reality, and Germany, cultural gem of the West, became a pariah among world nations," it says.  The museum, which opened in 1993 and has drawn nearly 30 million visitors, houses exhibits and records relating to the Holocaust of more than a half century ago in which more than six million Jews died at the hands of Nazis. Its Web site says the museum "teaches millions of people each year about the dangers of unchecked hatred and the need to prevent genocide."  The museum was crowded with school children and other tourists at the time of the attack, but they all escaped injury in the outburst of violence.  Ashley Camp, 14, of Forsyth, Ill., on a field trip with more than 40 other students, said she heard two or three gunshots. Soon after, she recalled, a security guard ordered the group to run to the exit.  "We had to sprint as fast as we could out the door," she said. "I thought it was the movie (part of a museum exhibit), but then everyone started screaming and running."  Image: Holocaust Museum shooting UPDATES intro to account for death of security guard; map locates U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum The attack was the third in a recent wave of unsettling shootings that appeared to have political underpinnings.  A 23-year-old Army private, William Andrew Long, was shot and killed outside a recruiting office this month in Arkansas and a fellow soldier was wounded. The suspect, a Muslim convert, has said he considers the killing justified because of the U.S. military presence in the Middle East.  Late last month, abortion provider Dr. George Tiller was shot to death in his church.  Johns, the security guard killed Wednesday, was black.  Only last week, Obama visited the site of a German concentration camp at Buchenwald in Germany where he noted, "There are those who insist the Holocaust never happened." He added, "This place is the ultimate rebuke to such thoughts, a reminder of our duty to confront those who would tell lies about our history."  Heavy security The museum normally has a heavy security presence with guards positioned both inside and outside. All visitors are required to pass through metal detectors at the entrance, and bags are screened.  Linda Elston, who was visiting the museum from Nevada City, Calif., said she was on the lower level of the museum watching a film when she and others were told to evacuate.  "It was totally full of people," Elston said. "It took us a while to get out."  She said she didn't hear any shots and didn't immediately know why there was an evacuation. The experience left her feeling "a little anxious," she said.  Reactions from othersIn a statement from Israel's government, Information and Diaspora Minister Yuli Edelstein said the shooting was "further proof that anti-Semitism and Holocaust denial have not passed from the world."  And the Council on American-Islamic Relations, a prominent American Muslim organization, said in a statement, "We condemn this apparent bias-motivated attack and stand with the Jewish community and with Americans of all faiths in repudiating the kind of hatred and intolerance that can lead to such disturbing incidents."  Within minutes after the attack, federal agents were dispatched to von Brunn's home in Annapolis, Md., to check his computer. Joseph Persichini, assistant director in charge of the Washington FBI field office, said the shootings were being investigated as a possible hate crime or a case of domestic terrorism.  According to a relative, von Brunn attended Washington University in St. Louis and is an artist.  He was commissioned as a naval officer decades ago, and discharged from the Navy in 1956. A cousin, Virginia Gerker of St. Louis, said in an interview she hadn't seen him in 50 years. She said her family had "disowned" him believed him to be mentally ill.  Tried to get his art shown in galleryAbout a dozen years ago, he applied to have his art shown at a gallery in Easton, Md., according to two of the owners. Laura Era and Jennifer Wharton said they rejected his work and he stomped out.  Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center said von Brunn's Web site has long been listed as a hate site.  The Rev. David Ostendorf, executive director of Center for a New Community in Chicago, a national civil rights group, said von Brunn has described in his own writings a long relationship with Willis Carto, founder of the Liberty Lobby, the Spotlight Newspaper and a well-known white supremacist and anti-Semite.  Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center said von Brunn's Web site has long been listed as a hate site.  "We've been tracking this guy for decades," said Heidi Beirich, director of research for the law center's Intelligence Project, which tracks hate crimes. "He thinks the Jews control the Federal Reserve, the banking system, that basically all Jews are evil.""
"Pentagon shooter had history of mental illness A California man killed in a shootout with Pentagon police officers had been behaving erratically, and his family feared in January that he had bought a gun.  March 4, 2010, 4:24 PM PST Image: John Patrick Bedell The California man who was killed in a shootout with Pentagon police had a history of mental illness and had become so erratic that his parents reached out to local authorities weeks ago with a warning that he was unstable and might have a gun, authorities said Friday.  It's still unclear why John Patrick Bedell opened fire Thursday at the Pentagon entrance, wounding two police officers before he was fatally shot. The two officers were hospitalized briefly with minor injuries.  Bedell was diagnosed as bipolar, or manic depressive, and had been in and out of treatment programs for years. His psychiatrist, J. Michael Nelson, said Bedell tried to self-medicate with marijuana, inadvertently making his symptoms more pronounced.  "Without the stabilizing medication, the symptoms of his disinhibition, agitation and fearfullness complicated the lack of treatment," Nelson said.  His parents reported him missing Jan. 4, a day after a Texas Highway Patrol officer stopped him for speeding in Amarillo, according to the missing person's report. Bedell told the highway patrolman he was heading for the East Coast, and the officer used Bedell's phone to call his mother, Kaye Bedell, because he seemed disheveled and out of sorts.  Family friend Reb Monaco said Kaye Bedell asked the officer to take him to a mental health facility, but that the son refused. The patrolman let Bedell go with a warning. The next day, Kaye told deputies in California that her son had no reason to travel to the East Coast because he had no friends or family there and she and her husband were worried about his mental state, San Benito County Sheriff Curtis Hill said.  Hill also said Bedell's parents found an e-mail from their son that indicated he had made a $600 purchase from a shooting range in the Sacramento area that could have been a gun or ammunition.  Cross-country odyssey The 36-year-old Bedell returned to his parent's home Jan. 18, telling them "not to ask any questions" about where he had been. But he left after that, and his parents didn't know where he went.  Little is known about his trip east, but authorities know he spent time in Reno, where Washoe County Sheriff Mike Haley said he was arrested on Feb. 1 with two ounces of marijuana in his car but no weapons.  The Bedell family put out a statement Friday saying they were "devastated as a family by the news."  "We may never know why he made this terrible decision," the statement said. "One thing is clear though — his actions were caused by an illness and not a defective character."  The San Jose Mercury News reported Bedell attended San Jose State University and was enrolled in fall 2009 in the graduate electrical engineering program. He did not enroll for 2010. A professor remembered him as one of the best circuit design students in his class, the newspaper said.  Investigators were trying to unravel a bizarre series of Internet postings that suggested Bedell was fascinated with conspiracy theories, computer programming, libertarian economics and the science of warfare.  Curiously, Bedell also proposed in 2004 that the Pentagon fund his own research on smart weapons. The 28-page proposal outlined his idea for DNA nanotechnology research that might "provide significant new capabilities for the Department of Defense and the individual warfighter."  That document is the first tangible link to surface connecting Bedell and the Pentagon.  Dressed to kill? On the day of the attack, Bedell left his green, 12-year-old Toyota in a nearby mall parking garage.  The 6-foot tall software devotee approached the Pentagon entrance Thursday evening wearing a jacket, dress shirt and pants, seeming like any other end-of-the-day commuter.  Bedell, the officials say, opened fire with a 9 mm handgun just five feet from the nearest officer, Marvin Carraway. Fellow officer Jefferey Amos ran out of a nearby guard booth to confront Bedell, as did a third, unidentified officer. All three officers gave chase and fired at Bedell, who was struck in the head and left arm.  Witness Dan Namisi said he had just emerged from the Metro station, headed for a bus home, when he heard a "pop." The Uganda native hit the ground, and the next thing he knew, officers swarmed over him and put handcuffs on him.  Namisi says he was searched repeatedly, but officers didn't ask him many questions during the three hours they held him. He said he may have attracted attention because he cut one of his hands when he dropped to the ground and the hand was bloody.  "I'm still very traumatized by it," Namisi said in a telephone interview. "In my experience they don't put you in a police car unless you're in trouble."  Officers praised Defense Secretary Robert Gates on Friday called the two wounded officers to express his "appreciation for their service, their bravery and their professionalism," said Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell.  Gates was not at the Pentagon at the time of the shooting because he was attending meetings at the White House.  The assault at the very threshold of the Pentagon — the U.S. capital's ground zero on Sept. 11, 2001 — came four months after a deadly attack on the Army's Fort Hood, Texas, post allegedly by a U.S. Army psychiatrist with radical Islamic leanings.  Hatred of the government motivated a man in Texas last month to fly a small plane into a building housing Internal Revenue Service offices, killing an IRS employee and himself.  The shooting resembled one in January in which a gunman walked up to the security entrance of a Las Vegas courthouse and opened fire with a shotgun, killing one officer and wounding another before being gunned down in return fire."
"Environmental Militant Killed by Police at Discovery Channel Headquarters ABC News Sept. 1, 2010&#151; -- A radical enviornmentalist who took three hostages at the Discovery Channel headquarters while wearing what police may be explosives was shot and killed by officers, police said.  The gunman, identified as James Lee, was killed by police following four hours of negotiations but the hostages are all safe, said Montgomery County Police Chief J. Thomas Manger.  Manger said the suspect had "metalic canisters" strapped to his chest and back. When Lee was struck by police bullets, one of the canisters "popped." Police have not confirmed if the canisters were a bomb, but Manger said the "device may have gone off" when he was shot.  Manger said police will search the building looking for other potential explosives Lee may have left inside.  "All the hostages are safe," Manger said, ending a four hour standoff in which some 1,900 employees were evacuated from the building as well as the company's on-site daycare center.  Manger said police spoke with Lee "for several hours" during which time he expressed "a wide range of emotions during those communications."  Law enforcement identified the suspect as James Lee, 43, from Washington, D.C., who has for at least two years called for protests against the company and who was arrested and found guilty of disorderly conduct for a protest outside of Discovery's headquarters in 2008.  In a rambling manifesto on Lee's website, believed to have been written by Lee, the writer rails against "disgusting human babies," "parasitic infants," and says people should "disassemble civilization." The manifesto also calls on Discovery to "broadcast to the world their commitment to save the planet."  Click here to read excerpts of the manifesto on James Lee website  The drama began when workers in the building got a bulletin from the building's security.  "We have reason to believe there is an armed gunman at One Discovery Place. All employees should seek protection in a locked office on their respective floors immediately," read an email sent to employees and read over the public address system.  "There's a guy with a gun in the lobby. Police are swarming in -- assault rifles and all," one producer told ABCNews.com via instant message.  Hostage Drama at Discovery Headquarters  Employees at the building were told to take cover in locked offices and police have sent SWAT teams to the area to seal off nearby roads.The FBI and agents from ATF, including explosives experts, also rushed to the building.  One witness, project manager Ari Fisher said he returned to the building at 1 p.m. following lunch and peered into the lobby before being told to flee from the building.  Fisher says he saw the gunman holding a security guard at his side with other hostages lying on the floor of the lobby.  "We couldn't see the weapon. We peered in and could make out his silhouette. We saw him holding a security guard at his side. There were other people on the floor, a dozen or so," Fisher told ABCNews.com from locked building across the street.  Others were trapped inside the suburban headquarters.  "Friends, I am in work closet with workers here. There is a shooter here at Discovery. I am ok," read a text from one Discovery employee.  Another employee said the Lee had taken a hostage. "The police are trying to get the situation under control!INSANE!" read the email to ABCNews.  Some employees were initially sent to higher floors and later evacuated, police said. Witnesses on the scene said another group of employees left the building around 1:44 p.m.  The building has a daycare center, which witnesses say has been evacuated.  "Crazy to see the babies coming out of childcare center piled into rolling cribs into the McD's across the street, a safe zone," said a witness via email.  The building, which houses the offices of Discovery Channel and its sibling networks including Animal Planet, is located just outside Washington DC.  Lee operates the Web site savetheplanetprotest.com and was arrested in 2008 following a demonstration held at Discovery's headquarters. Lee was found guilty of disorderly conduct.  According to a post on his Web site, Lee said he was thrown "in the nut house" for four days following his arrest.  Lee has been demanding a boycott of Discovery Channel since at least 2008.  Discovery Channel Gunman Penned Manifesto  On his website, Lee posted a rambling manifesto under the title "My Demands," which espouses a far-radical environmentalist and misinthropic philosophy and calls on the channel to cease programming about giving birth, war and weapons.  "The planet," he wrote, "does not need humans."  The document, which appears to have been created on July 17, is interspersed with references to esoteric philosophers, childish language, misspellings, and capital letters.  Lee writes that the channel should cease its current programming and replace it with a game show about reducing the global population.  The channel, he wrote, should produce a program about "how people can live WITHOUT giving birth to more filthy human children since those new additions continue pollution and are pollution."  "The world needs TV shows that DEVELOP solutions to the problems that humans are causing, not stupify the people into destroying the world. Not encouraging them to breed more environmentally harmful humans," he wrote.  "Saving the environment and the remaning [sic] species diversity of the planet is now your mindset. Nothing is more important than saving them. The Lions, Tigers, Giraffes, Elephants, Froggies, Turtles, Apes, Raccoons, Beetles, Ants, Sharks, Bears, and, of course, the Squirrels. . . The humans? The planet does not need humans," he wrote.  ABC News' Matt Jaffe, Devin Dwyer and Ryan Thomas contributed to this report"
"Florida Teen Wrote Note Before Crash The 15-year-old student pilot who crashed a small plane into a skyscraper wrote a note expressing sympathy for Osama bin Laden and support for the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, police said today.  The short, handwritten suicide note found in Charles J. Bishop's pocket said he acted alone, Tampa Police Chief Bennie R. Holder said. The high school freshman had few friends and no apparent terrorist ties, Holder said.  "Bishop can best be described as a young man who had very few friends and was very much a loner," Holder said. "From his actions, we can assume he was a very troubled young man."  Bishop crashed the Cessna 172R into the Bank of America building after taking off without authorization and ignoring signals to land from a Coast Guard helicopter that pursued the plane. Bishop was the only fatality.  Holder said there is no indication Bishop specifically targeted the building or "had any intention of harming anyone else."  Investigators today interviewed the boy's family and said they would search his personal computer for evidence.  Bishop, of Palm Harbor, was told to check the plane's equipment before the start of a flying lesson Saturday, police said. He took off without waiting for an instructor who was supposed to accompany him.  A Coast Guard helicopter pilot motioned for the boy to land but couldn't get a response, and a pair of military jets that scrambled to intercept the small plane arrived after the crash.  "There was no doubt he died on impact," Tampa Fire Department Capt. Bill Wade said.  Fire department officials said damage to the building was limited to the office where the plane hit and small areas of adjoining floors. Most of the building was expected to be open Monday, though there was concern about chunks of the facade falling to the sidewalk below.  Though terrorism was quickly discounted, images of the plane blasting a hole in the side of the skyscraper were chilling reminders of the World Trade Center attacks. Until it was pulled in early today, the plane's tail had dangled from the 28th floor of the 42-story Bank of America building.  In Palm Harbor, police unrolled yellow crime scene tape outside the apartment complex where Bishop lived with his mother, while detectives and FBI agents interviewed family members.  Julia Bishop, the boy's mother, told a camera crew to "get out" when they attempted to film her as she opened her door for investigators.  Bishop's grandmother had taken him to the National Aviation Academy flight school at St. Petersburg-Clearwater International Airport for a 5 p.m. flying lesson on Saturday, said Marianne Pasha, a Pinellas County Sheriff's Office spokeswoman.  A Coast Guard helicopter caught up to Bishop over Tampa after he had traveled about 20 miles, and the crew signaled for him to land. Pilots said he ignored them; then the plane crashed.  As a precaution, two F-15 fighter jets were scrambled from Homestead Air Reserve Base, 200 miles away, but they arrived after the crash, said Capt. Kirstin Reimann at the North American Aerospace Defense Command.  Only a few workers were in the building at the time of the crash. None was injured.  Sheriff's Sgt. Greg Tita said Bishop had no record of problems with the law.  Derek Perryman, a classmate of Bishop's at East Lake High School in Palm Harbor, about 25 miles west of Tampa, said Bishop often talked about planes with a friend in their journalism class.  After the Sept. 11 attacks, he said, Bishop read a paper to the class. "It was real expressive about how he felt, how disappointed he was," Perryman said.  CHARLES J. BISHOPThe plane's tail dangled from the 28th floor of the 42-story building until it was pulled in yesterday."
"Anson Chi, Plano Bomb Suspect, Indicted By Grand Jury July 11, 2012 / 4:55 PM  Anson Chi  Anson Chi. (Credit: Collin County) PLANO (CBSDFW.COM) –Anson Chi, the man who was arrested in connection with a bomb that went off near a gas main line last month, has been indicted.  A federal grand jury charged Anson Chi with possession of an unregistered firearm Wednesday morning. The charge carries a maximum 10 year punishment if convicted.  Last week, a federal judge ordered Chi held without bail despite the lack of an indictment. During the July 6 hearing, a federal agent testified that Chi admitted to placing a bottle of explosive metal nitrate he made at home on top of a natural gas main on Parker Road in Plano.  Because of this, the judge ruled Chi a danger to the community and he was locked away.  Chi said the bomb blew before he planned it to, seriously injuring his eyes, arms and hands in the process. When he was picked up by police hours later, he told them he was hit by a car while jogging.  Police found him bloody and covered in a sheet in a residential neighborhood between Coit Road and Independence Parkway, not far from the gas main.  The FBI spent nearly two days searching the home of Chi's parents, where he lived. Chi's mother told the judge she didn't realize her son had harmful chemicals in her home; she said she believed one of the liquids was wine and her son was making soup.  The agent also testified that Chi said in the hospital that he would set off another explosive device if given the chance. The agent said Chi told him he was tired of "armchair activists" and that he wanted to prove he was a real one.  Videos found online after Chi was identified as a suspect show him railing against the IRS, even tearing up a W-2 form on camera.  In: Federal Bureau of Investigation Internal Revenue Service"
"'Darkest day': 50 killed, four arrested, one man charged with murder in Christchurch terror attack March 15, 2019 — 7.36pm This was published 4 years ago  Updated Refresh for latest updates Fifty people have been killed in a terrorist attack and one man charged with murder after mass shootings at two mosques in Christchurch on New Zealand's South Island.  A still taken from a video confirmed by New Zealand Police shows this man in a car with guns before he entered a mosque in Christchurch and began shooting.  A still taken from a video confirmed by New Zealand Police shows this man in a car with guns before he entered a mosque in Christchurch and began shooting.  NZ Police Commissioner Mike Bush said 42 people had died at the Al Noor Mosque in central Christchurch and seven at Linwood Mosque. One other victim died after being taken to Christchurch Hospital.  New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the massacre could only be described as a terrorist attack.  Mr Bush said four people had been arrested, three men and a woman. One of the men, aged in his 20s, was charged with murder on Friday night.  He is due to face court on Saturday.  Following the attack, a number of improvised explosive devices were attached to vehicles and disarmed.  "The attackers were apprehended by local police staff, there have been some absolute acts of bravery," Mr Bush said.  Police were not aware of other people being involved but could not assume that there were not others at large, he said.  One of the shooters was an Australian man from Grafton in New South Wales who called himself "Brenton Tarrant" on Twitter and who livestreamed disturbing footage of him carrying out the attack.  Ms Arden said the attack appeared to have been well planned.  "These are people who I would describe as having extremist views, that have absolutely no place in New Zealand, and in fact have no place in the world," she said.  "While we do not have any reason to believe at this stage that there are any other suspects, we are not assuming that at this stage. The joint intelligence group has been deployed and police are putting all of their resources into the situation. The Defence Force are currently transporting additional police staff to the region."  She said many of those in the mosque were likely to be migrants - but they were "us" - New Zealanders.  "There is no place in New Zealand for extreme violence."  Armed police on Langdons Road, Papanui following the shootings. Armed police on Langdons Road, Papanui following the shootings.The Press "We are potentially still dealing with an evolving situation. And again, as I say, across multiple sites."  Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said: "We are outraged and we stand here and condemn absolutely the attack that occurred today by an extremist, right-wing violent terrorist who has taken the lives, stolen lives, in a vicious, murderous attack that has claimed so many New Zealanders."  Mr Morrison, speaking from Kirribilli House in Sydney, said he had no information to suggest any Australians had been killed but noted it was "very early on" and the situation was unfolding.  Killer livestreamed video  The gunman identified himself as "Brenton Tarrant" - a white, 28-year-old Australian-born man,  who livestreamed for 17 minutes as he shot victims in the mosque - and wrote a 37-page "manifesto" declaring his intentions.  In the video, he says: "Let's get this party started," as he starts his car and travels to the mosque.  He is seen wearing army-like gear and uses GPS on his phone to direct him there.  As he travels along the driveway near to the mosque, music is playing in his car.  He then parks, gets a gun out of his car and walks towards the mosque.  He opens fire several times before throwing the gun to the ground. He then picks up another gun and continues to fire, shooting one person as they attempt to crawl away and fires at another person as they run away.  He then gets into another room where he fires at people trying to hide from him.  Several bodies can be seen in the video.  He continues to fire at the people as they lie on the ground.  He then exits the mosque running back to his car firing at people on the street before taking another gun out of the boot of his car and running back to the mosque and firing through the front entrance.  He then re-enters the mosque, again shooting at people lying on the ground from close range as he walks around a room.  Once outside, the man shoots again down the street.  One woman can be seen lying on the road yelling. "Help me, help me."  Ambulance staff take a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch following a mass shooting. Ambulance staff take a man from outside a mosque in central Christchurch following a mass shooting.AP The man then puts another address into his car's GPS and shoots at several people while in his car.  The gunman's rifles had "Alexandre Bissonette" and "Luca Traini" written on them - the names of mosque shooters in Italy and Canada.  Christchurch Mayor Lianne Dalziel said she was "shocked beyond words" by the shootings.  "I would never have expected anything like this to happen in Christchurch. I'd never expect this to happen in New Zealand," she said. "I am getting messages from around the country, and from around the world. I know that everyone is shocked."  Stunned and bloodied workshippers outside one of the Christchurch mosques. Stunned and bloodied workshippers outside one of the Christchurch mosques.John Kirk-Anderson/Stuff. Shots were reported to have been fired at Christchurch Hospital, which activated its emergency plan. Multiple patients were taken to the hospital and local medical facilities. Patient injuries ranged from minor through to those with critical gunshot wounds.  A number of helicopter and road ambulances were on standby to provide support, including transporting patients to other ICUs around the country.  About 20 armed police cleared buildings in Linwood, across from the Eastgate Mall.  A man speaks on a mobile phone outside a mosque in central Christchurch. A man speaks on a mobile phone outside a mosque in central Christchurch.AP Police warned people to stay indoors and to report any suspicious behaviour to 111.  The Civil Aviation Authority declared Christchurch City a controlled air space.  All Christchurch schools were put on lockdown, including Christchurch Girls' and Christchurch Boys' high schools and Hagley Community College.  Parents of Christchurch Girls' students were sent text messages about 2.05pm, which said: "This is not an exercise."  Scene of the attack: The Al Noor Mosque in the Christchurch CBD.  Scene of the attack: The Al Noor Mosque in the Christchurch CBD. Stuff A man, who would not give his name, said he was praying in the Al Noor Mosque when he heard the shooting start. He escaped, but outside saw his wife lying dead on the footpath.  "My wife is dead," he said, wailing. He was supported by other Muslim men who prayed for him.  Another man said he saw children being shot.  "There were bodies all over me."  A resident on Freyberg Street said she heard "hundreds" of shots and it was "terrifying".  The former president of the Muslim Association of Canterbury, Mohammed Jama, said a man with a gun went into the Al Noor Mosque about 1.40pm on Friday.  He saw about four people injured and two lying on the ground. He did not know if they were alive or dead.  A photographer said he could see three seriously injured people on the doorstep of the mosque.  "A serious and evolving situation is occurring in Christchurch with an active shooter," the police commissioner said as the events were unfolding.  "Police are responding with their full capability to manage the situation, but the risk environment remains extremely high.  "Police recommend that residents across Christchurch remain off the streets and indoors until further notice. Christchurch schools will be locked down until further notice."  Police cleared Cathedral Square, where thousands of children were rallying for action on climate change. Armed police were also trying to clear Deans Avenue and Hagley Park.  A reporter at the scene said the mood was very tense.  A nearby business owner said a lot of of people were praying at the mosque at the time.  "I heard 20 or more gunshots. I thought something happened and the people were running on the other side of Deans Avenue and now I can see so many police," he said.  A man who ran from the mosque told him the shooting happened there.  One woman in the area said she was told by police there was a shooter in Hagley Park.  Another witness reported hearing at least 20 gunshots and saw what she thought were three people on the ground.  A witness said he saw two people walking out of the Al Noor Mosque. A car was chasing the people along Deans Avenue and the people in the car started shooting at them, he said.  A person at the scene said armed police were searching for someone in North Hagley Park. Two ambulances had arrived.  Another witness said she heard a "bunch of shots" from a building on Deans Avenue. She saw police on the corner of Lester Lane and Deans Avenue. She and others went outside, but police told them to stay inside.  "We heard police telling a gunman to put their hands up," she said.  Elderly people shot at Linwood Mosque  Syed Ahmed said a man wearing a black motorcycle helmet and camouflage clothing, carrying what he thought was a black assault rifle with white writing, started "indiscriminate shooting" from outside the Linwood Mosque.  The man first shot several elderly people sitting on chairs during prayer, he said.  "They were basically all shot."  He thought at least eight people had been shot, including at least three women and two of his friends. One of those killed had been shot in the head and remained inside the mosque, he said.  The man came through the front door "shouting something" but it "could not be heard over the screaming".  Ahmed said he kept "low on the ground" and crawled to the storeroom before getting away.  Sabir Hussain, who was inside the Linwood Mosque, said he was "doing a prayer when our imam said our brothers have been shot".  Hussain went into the washroom and,  through the window, saw one man dead outside.  He knew he "was not safe", jumped out of the window and hid behind a fence until police arrived.  A reporter at the scene said people at the cordon were hugging as they passed through the tape.  One man wearing a prayer robe was covered in blood but appeared to be uninjured, she said.  Farhaan Farheez was praying with about 100 others in the Linwood Mosque when the shooting started.  "I didn't know what a gun sounded like. It is customary when we are praying not to pay attention to the outside world ... Gunshots kept happening and people kept praying.  "I saw two females and four or five males dead and the rest were severe casualties ... The whole mosque was filled with blood and dead bodies. It was like a battlefield."  The 27-year-old moved to New Zealand from Fiji in 2015.  "I am thinking, I have worked so hard to be in New Zealand but what for – to be shot at?"  Cricket team escaped  The Bangladesh cricket team escaped the Al Noor Mosque shooting.  Cricinfo's Bangladesh correspondent Mohammad Isam posted a video to Twitter of the team rushing through Hagley Park away from the mosque.  "Just escaped active shooters!!! Heartbeats pumping badly and panic everywhere!! #ChristchurchMosque," he wrote.  Mario Villavarayen, the team's strength and conditioning coach, said the players were shaken, but fine.  "I spoke to one of them shortly after [the attack]. They didn't see anything but heard gunshots. They were at the ground [Hagley Oval] and just started running.  "The coaching staff were all at the hotel. The players just started running when they heard the shots."  Bangladesh were due to play New Zealand at Hagley Oval on Saturday, but the Test has been called off.  Stuff.co.nz, smh.com.au, agencies  From our partners      "
"The state must fight right-wing extremism more intensively Kurt Kister5-7 minutes 2/20/2020 But not only him. Every citizen must now resist. Against the murderers - and against those who create a murderous atmosphere.  Just watching the video of bourgeois-looking mass murderer Tobias R. telling the world that the U.S. military kills children in underground bases and worships Satan, and you could say, OK, this guy is ballaballa, and there are many like him on Youtube. But now the guy has killed ten people, whom he shot, with the exception of his mother, because he wanted to kill foreigners, strangers, non-Germans and whatever other such terms exist. The murder night in Hanau was racially motivated terrorism - regardless of whether the perpetrator was mentally ill according to medical criteria or not.  Racially motivated terrorism of this kind abounded in Germany in the first half of the 20th century. It grew out of widespread xenophobia in the population, which at the time was directed primarily, but not only, at Jews. First there were individual perpetrators and then groups, who were protected by parts of society and not or only hesitantly pursued by parts of the police, who were often treated leniently by the judiciary as "fellow criminals".  The 1920s and 1930s are not repeating themselves. There is no danger of overturning today; there is no revisionist foreign policy that wants to bring back "lost" country; the vast majority of people live, think and love differently than they did a hundred years ago. Nevertheless, in Germany in particular there is more than enough reason to deal with a lot of what was, because some of what is today is too reminiscent of what was then.  Those "lone perpetrators" in Munich in 2016, in Halle in 2019 and now in Hanau, just like the murderer of District President Lübcke, shot in the certainty that there were many who thought like them - but just didn't act like them. The people these criminals target come from the same groups as the targets of their spiritual ancestors a hundred years ago: Jews, foreigners, representatives of the "system". Added to this are Muslims and refugees in general. A look at the USA shows how quickly mass murder can change a society: the number of shootings there has become so large that they are almost part of everyday life. The president prays, civil society is outraged, and three months later someone else kills 12 people.  Even if that is terrible, there is no reason for resignation, on the contrary. Fortunately, that supposedly homogeneous Germany of the last century no longer exists, because that Germany was responsible for the monstrous crimes that are not bird shit in history. Germany today is a very diverse, often exhausting country, where you meet the future in the same place as an annoying persistence. But this Germany is - despite Hanau and Halle - the freest, the best Germany that ever existed.  They openly join neo-Nazis like the Thuringian leader Höcke It is precisely this Germany that the murderers are attacking when they shoot at migrants. But not only the killers attack it, but also those who prepare the ground for them. Those who constantly talk about "foreign infiltration", who scorn politicians, the state, the community, who equate lifestyles with illnesses ("left-green filthy"), who constantly try to draw boundaries between "us" and "them" . They deliberately disparage Muslims, such as the polemicist Sarrazin; they break taboos because they want to divide society like the old reactionary Gauland; they openly join neo-Nazis like the Thuringian leader Höcke. These people don't load the murderers' pistols themselves. But they create that atmosphere in which the murderers don't have to feel like "lone killers" - which they aren't.  Yes, "the" state must combat right-wing extremism with all its manifestations much more intensively than before. Synagogues and mosques need to be better guarded while the threat is so great. Prevention also means that large-capacity handguns are no longer allowed to be kept at home by private individuals, not even by sport shooters. This is not a general suspicion against shooters, but the necessary consequence of a number of murders.  Government action, however, is not enough. Each and every individual has a duty. It starts with bad jokes and doesn't end with the unquestioning acceptance of everyday racism. You have to state things clearly, for example: Whoever votes for the AfD puts themselves in the right corner because they also vote for the right-wing extremists that are in this party. This country and its social order, its people, no matter what"
"The current developments on the attack in Halle to read  The day after the attack in Halle, the city mourns, throughout Germany people show solidarity with the Jewish community and the victims. Read the news of the day in the news blog. By Jean-Pierre Ziegler, Andreas Albert and Katharina Koerth 10.10.2019, 3:58 p.m.  10.10.2019 00:00 albert Day one after the fatal shots in Halle (Saale): The 27-year-old Stephan Balliet from Saxony-Anhalt was arrested as a presumed perpetrator. He apparently acted alone on site in Halle.  In the act, he wore a helmet camera with which he streamed a video live. The Minister of the Interior of Saxony-Anhalt, Holger Stahlknecht, confirmed the authenticity of the video. In the meantime, a document has also appeared, which seems to be an explanation of the attacker. Federal Prosecutor General Peter Frank assumes a right-wing extremist and anti-Semitic motivation and spoke of terror. Balliet is accused, among other things, of double murder and attempted murder in nine cases. In the course of this evening, the 27-year-old is to be presented to the investigating judge at the Federal Court of Justice.  We will inform you here about the latest developments.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 10:28 a.m. Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth We are saying goodbye for today. On SPIEGEL ONLINE, we will of course keep you informed about the current developments in connection with the assassination attempt in Halle.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 10:24 AM Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth In the meantime, the events in Halle can be understood in detail. The minutes of the assassination: Assassination in Halle: 104 minutes of terror Assassination in Halle: 104 minutes of terror www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 10:03 am Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth In a communication, the Federal Prosecutor General at the Federal Court of Justice, Peter Frank, justified his application for an arrest warrant against the perpetrator of Halle. "Stephan B. planned a murder attack on fellow citizens of the Jewish faith out of his right-wing extremist and anti-Semitic attitude," it says.  He carried four firearms with him in the act, including at least one fully automatic. In addition, he had several explosive devices in the car. "The accused wanted to gain access to the church and kill as many people of Jewish faith as possible," writes the Federal Prosecutor General.  Among other things, an attempt to blow up a gate to a driveway failed. The perpetrator killed a woman who had asked him about his behavior by shooting him in the back. Out of frustration at his failure at the door of the synagogue, he then made the decision to "kill fellow citizens with a migration background." He then went to the kebab snack bar and shot a man there as well.  The further investigations would "in particular also deal with the question of whether persons were involved in the preparation or execution of the attack or were aware of it in advance". It continues: "So far, there is a lack of sufficient actual evidence that the accused was linked to a right-wing terrorist association or that there is any other connection with such an association."  It is still unclear whether the accused had produced the weapons and explosive devices himself or obtained them in any other way.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 09:34 AM Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth  The president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Josef Schuster, has made serious accusations against the police in connection with the attack. "The fact that the synagogue in Halle was not protected by the police on a holiday like Yom Kippur is scandalous," he said.  There is no uniform concept for the protection of Jewish institutions in this country: Halle attack: How safe are Jewish institutions in Germany? Halle attack: How safe are Jewish institutions in Germany? www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 09:19 AM Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth In Halle, hundreds of people gathered again on the market square that evening to commemorate the victims of the attack and to send an example against anti-Semitism. A memorial service was announced for 6 p.m. in the Pauluskirchen congregation, after which the participants want to go in silence to the synagogue, into which the perpetrator had tried to penetrate.  Saxony-Anhalt's Prime Minister Reiner Haseloff (CDU) and the non-partisan Lord Mayor Bernd Wiegand once again expressed their sympathy and called for civil courage against anti-Semitism and right-wing extremism. Both called on the people to set an example this Friday by forming a human chain in Saxony-Anhaltum synagogues. "Jewish life belongs to the city of Halle," said the mayor.    Hannibal Hanschke/Reuters  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 08:40 am Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth The anti-Semitism commissioners of the federal and state governments have strongly condemned the assassination of Halle an der Saale in a joint communication. "We deeply condemn this heinous attack on our liberal-democratic basic order," said the permanent federal-state commission to combat anti-Semitism.  "Our heartfelt sympathy goes to the relatives of the two people killed. We express our condolences to the Jewish community in Halle and at the same time to all Jews, whose highest religious festival was covered with pain, fear and grief by the attack and thus abruptly reversed," the anti-Semitism commissioners continued.  The attack leaves scars not only in the hearts of Jews in Germany. "Now it must be about standing together as a society, resolutely opposing destructive tendencies, and showing: Judaism belongs to us, that was an attack on all of us."   Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 08:35 AM Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth On the Internet, gun fools exchange information about their own designs and upload building plans for weapons. Stephan Balliet also apparently used self-made weapons and explosive devices in his attack on the synagogue in Halle and people in the surrounding area. What is known about it: Halle (Saale): The assassin's self-built arsenal of weapons Halle (Saale): The assassin's self-built arsenal of weapons www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 08:08 AM Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth According to Saxony-Anhalt's Interior Minister Holger Stahlknecht (CDU), Stephan Balliet is said to have been the only shooter of the attack according to the current state of the investigation. "A second accused is not known to us, we assume that it was an individual perpetrator, always in the legal sense," he said when asked at a press conference in Halle.  Both Stahlknecht and Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU) pointed out that it is now being determined whether Stephan Balliet was involved in an environment or networks. If someone had procured explosives and possessed weapons to that extent, one must illuminate with whom the man had contact and how he obtained them, said Seehofer. "This must be clearly distinguished from the execution of the crime    Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 08:01 am Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth How dangerous can right-right hatred on the net become? And to what extent have the German security authorities missed the dangerous development? The assassination in Halle raises these questions, says SPIEGEL editor Wolf Wiedmannn-Schmidt in his video analysis. Halle: The right-wing terrorist threat on the net Halle: The right-wing terrorist threat on the net www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:51 am albert SPD Secretary General Lars Klingbeil calls for consequences in the fight against right-wing extremists and anti-Semites. "Jewish life in Germany must be protected. There must be no doubt about that," Klingbeil told SPIEGEL.  When asked whether Jewish institutions should have general and permanent police protection, the Social Democrat said that it was "sad that we have to ask ourselves questions in our open, pluralistic country at all." But the developments of recent months have made permanent protection necessary.  Halle (Saale): Lars Klingbeil on the attack and the consequences Halle (Saale): Lars Klingbeil on the attack and the consequences www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:51 am Katharina Koerth Katharina Koerth According to information from the dpa news agency, the alleged perpetrator Stephan Balliet is on his way to the investigating judge at the Federal Court of Justice. He landed in Karlsruhe with a helicopter, as a dpa photographer observed in the late afternoon.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:45 am albert Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU) wants to discuss the consequences of the right-wing extremist attack in Halle in a conference of interior ministers with his state colleagues next week. A corresponding meeting was convened in Berlin for Friday, said Seehofer. Above all, measures against hate slogans on the Internet must be addressed. "Hate is always a lead time for actual violence."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:43 am albert Also the football Bundesliga club 1. FC Köln mourns with the relatives. In a tweet, the club announced that football should not stay out of it. "No one is allowed to stay out if Jews cannot pray without fear and terror is possible as in Halle," tweeted the Rhenish club. Therefore, the FC is also committed to diversity. "We feel with the relatives of the victims and wish the injured full recovery," the club said.  twitter 1. FC Köln on Twitter No one is allowed to stay out if Jews cannot pray without fear and terror is possible as in #Halle. Neither does football. This is exactly why the #effzeh is committed to diversity. We feel with the relatives of the victims and wish the injured full recovery. pic.twitter.com/XShdWpym7U— 1. FC Köln (@fckoeln) October 10, 2019 twitter.com  External content When viewing external content, data is transmitted to third parties.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:41 am albert After a club member of Halleschen FC died in the attack, fans mourned in front of the synagogue. "We all couldn't really believe what happened yesterday," said a young man to the dpa news agency. The person killed was part of the active fan scene.  "A family member of us died and that really sucks," said a friend of the killed. He criticized that there is talk primarily about the perpetrator and not about the victims.  The players of Halleschen FC competed in a non-public test match on Thursday in Trauerflor. "We are all still in shock," said the president of the third league club, Jens Rauschenbach.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:35 am albert The umbrella association of Islamic communities in Saxony-Anhalt has condemned the attacks in the strongest possible terms. "We are horrified and outraged by the cowardly and criminal terrors," said a statement distributed via Facebook. The communities were particularly shocked by the attack on the synagogue, where people should find their mental calm.  "We regard this attack on the Jewish holiday as a politically motivated terrorist attack," the umbrella association said. "Terrorists want to divide society and bring hatred and violence to our population." The board called on all people in Germany to oppose right-wing extremism - whether Jews, Christians, Muslims or religion-free fellow citizens.  FACEBOOK FACEBOOK https://www.facebook.com/isgemaev/photos/pb.147760148636444.-2207520000.1570718177. /2498780176867751/? type=3&theater Islamic Community Magdeburg e.V., facebook.com  External content When viewing external content, data is transmitted to third parties.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:30 am albert Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer calls for further positions for the police to be better equipped in the fight against hate messages on the Internet and against right-wing extremist perpetrators. "Hate is always a forerunner of actual violence."  "This federal government will do everything possible to ensure that the Jews in our country can live without threat, without fear," said Seehofer. Conversations and words must now be followed by practical actions so that Germany lives up to its oath.   Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:26 am albert In sports, according to Alon Meyer, the president of Makkabi Germany, anti-Semitic attacks have "strongly increased" in recent months and years. This is what the chairman of the Jewish Gymnastics and Sports Association Germany told the dpa news agency.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:22 am albert The eyewitness Rifat Tekin describes how he experienced the attack on the kebab snack bar. Attack in Halle Saale: Snack bar employee tells Attack in Halle Saale: Snack bar employee tells www.spiegel.de  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:08 am Jean-Pierre Ziegler Jean-Pierre Ziegler Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer announced permanently better protection for Jewish institutions throughout Germany. Jewish facilities must be better protected - this will be done from now on, sustainably and permanently, said Seehofer. The better protection facilities must be additional. Otherwise, there will be a "not very simple discussion among the population," said the CSU politician. Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer advocates better protection of Jewish institutions Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer is campaigning for better protection of Jewish institutions. Hendrik Schmidt/dpa  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:07 am albert The Minister of the Interior of Saxony-Anhalt, Holger Stahlknecht (CDU), has confirmed the authenticity of the video distributed by the alleged perpetrator in Halle. The police were eight minutes after receipt of the emergency call at the synagogue, at this time the alleged perpetrator was already on his way to the kebab snack bar, where he shot a second person, said Stahlknecht.  The alleged perpetrator was arrested an hour and a half after the first murder on the run after an accident on a country road. In a firefight with the police, the man was injured in the neck.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:06 am Jean-Pierre Ziegler Jean-Pierre Ziegler Josef Schuster, President of the Central Council of Jews, told journalists in the Halle Police Inspectorate that from now on all Jewish institutions in Halle, Dessau and Magdeburg would get police protection. This should be sustainable. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer (CSU) added that this protection should be permanent.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:05 am albert The Migration Commissioner of the Federal Government, Annette Widmann-Mauz (CDU), is in favor of a special cabinet round to combat racism and anti-Semitism. "We need a special cabinet of cohesion and against racism, against anti-Semitism and misanthropy," said the Minister of State in the Federal Chancellery of the "Schwäbische Zeitung" in Friedrichshafen.  "We deal with climate, we deal with digitization - but what constitutes our society and its cohesion, we must cooperate - and with all departments - and that must give a new dimension," said Widmann-Mauz.  If you continue the state as well as the personal commitment against racism and anti-Semitism at the same level as before, "then we are very, very quickly back in a phase in which I at least do not want this country to come again."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 07:02 am Jean-Pierre Ziegler Jean-Pierre Ziegler Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU) said to journalists in the Halle Police Inspectorate: "This brutal crime is a shame for our entire country."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:53 am albert The Prime Minister of Saxony-Anhalt, Reiner Haseloff (CDU), was shocked by the attack. At a joint press conference in Halle (Saale) with, among others, Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU) and the President of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, Josef Schuster, Haseloff stressed at the same time that society in the country will not be brought apart by the act, but will hold it together.  Jewish life is desired in Saxony-Anhalt, said Haseloff. The congregations in the country must be sure that they can hold their services. Saxony-Anhalt is a cosmopolitan country in which respect for human dignity and religious freedom are considered a high good. At the same time, Haseloff announced measures to protect against attacks, but did not express itself more concretely at first. Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU), Prime Minister Reiner Haseloff (CDU) and Minister of the Interior Holger Stahlknecht (CDU) Federal Minister of the Interior Horst Seehofer (CSU), Prime Minister Reiner Haseloff (CDU) and Minister of the Interior Holger Stahlknecht (CDU). Hendrik Schmidt/dpa  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:49 am albert According to Federal Prosecutor General Peter Frank, the alleged perpetrator wanted to be an "imitator in the double sense." He had imitated comparable acts that had been committed before and "to our knowledge, he also wanted to incite others to imitate such acts," said Frank in Karlsruhe.  In the course of the investigation, Balliet's apartment was searched. Secured "Asservate" and also the weapons and explosives of the alleged perpetrator would now be criminally investigated. In addition, it is determined whether there might be supporters, confidants or others who might have incited him. The entire communication of the man is now being examined and determined what activities there have been in the so-called darknet.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:45 am albert The ex-pirate politician and digital expert Marina Weisband has spoken out against a single perpetrator thesis. "We are dealing with a right-wing extremist global movement that is digitally strongly networked and shares conventions and language," Weisband told the Neue Osnabrücker Zeitung.  "The assassin of Halle is not a lone perpetrator. He is part of a new type of terrorist network," said the former pirate managing director. She described the reactions of political officials in Germany as incredibly ignorant. "A cloud was brewing. The fact that she is discharging was not surprising."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:41 am albert The parliamentary control body of the Bundestag will meet on Monday for a special session on the attack in Halle. This is what its chairman Armin Schuster (CDU) told the editorial network Germany. The body is responsible for monitoring the security authorities, in particular the intelligence services. According to the report, the special meeting had been requested by the Greens.  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:37 am Jean-Pierre Ziegler Jean-Pierre Ziegler Saxony-Anhalt's Prime Minister Reiner Haseloff (CDU) spoke to journalists in the Halle (Saale) Police Inspectorate. Yesterday was a "terrible day." "We are suffering from what we experienced yesterday."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email 10.10.2019 06:36 am albert The AfD chairman Jörg Meuthen has expressly committed himself to Jewish life in Germany. "Jewish life in Germany is an elementary part of our identity and will always remain so," Meuthen said in a press release. "We from the Alternative for Germany will defend this Jewish life against its enemies with teeth and claws."  Copy link  Share on facebook  Share on twitter  Share via email Load more "
"Bomb Kills Dozens in Oklahoma Federal Building  Federal Building after the bombing Photo by the Daily Oklahoman/SABA By Sue Anne Pressley Washington Post Staff Writer Thursday, April 20, 1995; Page A01 OKLAHOMA CITY, APRIL 19 -- An apparent terrorist car bomb exploded outside a federal office building here today, collapsing the north face of the nine-story concrete building, injuring hundreds of workers, and killing at least 31, including 12 children who attended a day-care center on the second floor. Local officials said they feared that the toll would rise quickly because by early evening more than half of the estimated 550 people who worked in the building were still unaccounted for.  Assistant Fire Chief John Hansen said rescue workers had seen "many more fatalities in the building that we are working around" while searching for survivors. He added, "The death toll could really skyrocket" when they begin removing corpses.  The bombing, described by authorities as the deadliest terrorist attack ever on U.S. soil, occurred in the most unlikely of targets -- this heartland capital city of 440,000 that residents once jokingly described as "the town where nothing much ever happens." It occurred shortly after 9 a.m. Central time, when employees were settling down to their work day at the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building and when the maximum number of people were going in and out of the structure.  The explosion quickly turned the placid, tree-shaded downtown into a scene more reminiscent of the aftermath of bombings in Beirut or Tel Aviv. Workers staggered out of stairwells, blood dripping into their eyes. A woman moaned on the ground, part of her leg apparently missing from the blast. Employees at buildings blocks away reported being thrown from their chairs, windows were shattered, and residents who live 30 miles from downtown reported feeling the powerful vibrations of the blast. Everywhere around the city, people stood in stunned silence, not believing what they had just seen and heard, not comprehending how anyone could have done such a thing.  "Obviously, no amateur did this," said Gov. Frank A. Keating (R). "Whoever did this was an animal."  The building itself was so damaged that simply searching for survivors became a long, perilous task that stretched throughout the day and into the night. The entire front portion appeared to be excavated, as if it had been hit with a wrecking ball many times -- cables stringing down over the sides, steel reinforcements visible, portions of offices still recognizable. Debris from the blast formed a pile two stories high in front of the building, cascading all the way across the street and into a parking lot. The explosion itself blasted a crater eight feet deep and 20 feet in diameter that was filled with rubble.  Tonight, the First Christian Church on 36th Street also doubled as the Family Assistance Center, the sad place where relatives came to bring pictures of their missing loved ones, to tell about birthmarks and scars and other things that might help to identify them. At 11 p.m., 100 people still waited here, holding a quiet prayer vigil and listening to television reports that told them nothing.  Antonio Cooper and his wife, Renee, were still trying to find their 6-month-old son, Antonio Jr., who was enrolled in the day-care center and is still unaccounted for. They held a picture of him, dressed up in a bow tie and grinning broadly. "He is a playful boy," Cooper said, as the boy's mother cried at his side. They said they would wait all night for news.  "This is a sad place to be," said Richard Dugger, an agent of the Oklahoma medical examiner's office who was helping. "Tomorrow will be the really awful day when everyone starts to get the official notification. That's going to be a horrible thing to watch." The mysteries surrounding the bombing were not dispelled as the day passed. The death toll was unknown, only certain to go higher, and authorities said they would have to resort to "a process of elimination" to determine the toll. Federal authorities broadcast a plea to all persons who had been in the building to call a special phone number so that by knowing how many had survived officials could begin to estimate how many had died.  By 10 a.m., more than 50 people had been rescued. Another 12 hours elapsed before the 59th survivor was pulled from the wreckage.  The horror of the event was multiplied by the fact that so many of its first known victims were children. They were at play on the second floor of the building when the bomb exploded beneath their day-care center. Broken toys were scattered amid the shards of concrete. Rescue workers feared that as many as 30 children may have been in the day-care center and only two were known to have emerged alive. Most were the children of federal employees who once had been able to take comfort in the thought that their loved ones were nearby.  Justice Department officials in Washington reported that the blast had spawned a wave of bomb threats throughout the country today. Although no other bombs were found, government offices in Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Portland, Wilmington and Fort Worth were evacuated, and the news of the bombing had an unsettling effect on many Americans, who said that if such a thing could happen in Oklahoma City, it could happen anywhere.  "You can go to any public building in Tulsa or Dallas, you can go to a public sporting event, and this kind of thing can happen," said Sen. Don Nickles (R-Okla.), who was called away from a hearing in Dallas to go to the bombing site. "We've been very, very fortunate in this country. You think about it, America is wide open. We don't have very tight security. My guess is, if somebody wanted to do an attack anywhere, they would have some success."  The Murrah Building housed a variety of federal agencies, including the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; the Social Security Administration; the Housing and Urban Development, Veterans Affairs and Agriculture departments; and the Secret Service.  Troy Grigsby, the deputy manager of HUD's field office in the building, said co-workers told him that the work day had just begun when the blast sent everyone screaming for the stairwells. The HUD workers were taking computer-training classes in the center of the building.  "One minute they were just beginning to sit at computers, the next they were knocked to the floor," he said. "They said the wall caved in."  Mary Heath, a psychologist who works about 20 blocks from the Murrah Building, said the blast "shook the daylights out of things -- it scared us to death. We felt the windows shake before we heard the noise."  Within moments of the blast, the walking wounded began pouring out of the federal building and nearby structures. Some were screaming hysterically, some were so bloodied that it seemed impossible they were still standing. Many said nothing at all; they looked disoriented as they stumbled toward the triage center that had been set up on the street. One woman was carried to the triage center in her desk chair by two husky men. An hour after the blast, automobiles across the street were still on fire, producing plumes of thick, black smoke. The floors of the Murrah Building were "pancaked," rescue workers said, collapsed one on top of the other.  As the morning passed, it was the thought of the children that most troubled many of the residents here. Called "America's Kids," it is a relatively small center with an enrollment of 41 children, including 25 whose parents are federal workers and the remainder from the community. There were estimates today that 30 children were in attendance.  "Oh, I can't stand the thought of . . . those innocent children, sitting there playing, thinking they're safe, and then this happens," said Sherri Sparks. Sparks said she had several friends who worked in the federal building and are unaccounted for.  By mid-morning, as the gravity of the situation became more apparent and casualties began to arrive, hospitals all over Oklahoma City put out calls for all emergency medical personnel to report to work, and the Red Cross blood bank issued an alert for donations. The injured sat on sidewalks, their heads in their hands, awaiting medical assistance.  "It's like Beirut. Everything burning and flattened," said Carl Spengler, a physician who arrived about five minutes after the blast.  At 11 a.m., the rescue efforts within the building had to be halted when workers reported seeing what they thought was another bomb. The workers had to pull back for an hour and a half while a bomb squad investigated, and although it turned out to be a false alarm, the delay was painful.  "We were right at the point where we were getting to people and we had to leave them," said Hansen, the assistant fire chief.  Later, a fire department hook and ladder was positioned next to the gaping side of the building so that workers could be evacuated. One man in a suit and tie struggled hesitantly down the ladder, as if he were in a daze, as workers coaxed him down. By noon, federal office managers began scrambling to account for all their employees, but it was still difficult to determine who was in what condition.  The rescue efforts were "going slow" by mid-afternoon, Hansen said. "The building is in danger of collapse. We're talking to victims. We've got listening devices and dogs. But it's slow. We reach through cracks and hold people's hands and reassure them as we can. The firefighters are coming out with tears in their eyes." One firefighter said it hurt him terribly to "know I can't get to those people." Staff writer Rene Sanchez and special correspondent Elizabeth Hudson contributed to this report.  © Copyright 1997 The Washington Post Co."
"Murderer from the center of Bratislava: I don't feel any remorse, isn't it funny? He wrote after the shooting pst, Pravda13.10.2022 09:40, updated: 17:00 shooting at the castle, Juraj Krajčík VIDEO: Police at the place where they found the body of the shooter from Zámocká Street  Video  According to Denník N, Juraj K. came home to his parents after the attack, where he exchanged one weapon for another. There was a conflict between Juraj K. and his parents, the killer also wrote a farewell letter. He then left the house with his father's gun. The parents did not call the police.  VIDEO: After the shooting in Bratislava, two people were left dead Video  Only a few hours before the attack, the shooter published a manifesto against Jews and LGBTI people on the Twitter social network. There were also several posts suggesting that he was preparing for an attack.  "The list of enemies of young Krajčík is unbelievably long, and people from the homosexual community simply had the infinite misfortune of being the most vulnerable target of all available. If the circumstances were favorable to him, he would have started - according to his own plans - by killing in a building where some Orthodox Jews meet and only from there he intended to move to the Teplárna," columnist and security expert Radovan Bránik wrote on the Facebook social network.  The police at the place where they found the dead shooter from... Strelt's 65-page manifesto, entitled Call to Arms, begins by saying that the Jews are to blame for everything.  "Everyone knows what the problem is, but no one is willing to do anything to stop it. We all know who the main responsible "people" are, whose heads and noses must be cut off, who is responsible for all this chaos. Who is to blame for the uncontrolled increase in non-white immigration to Europe and the US. Who is to blame for the rise of degeneracy, homosexuality, transgenderism, deviance of all forms. Who is to blame for the mass brainwashing of the public through the media, newspapers and now social media. Who is to blame for enslaving us financially. And lately, who is to blame for enforcing some form of total social control... Anyone with eyes knows who is responsible. But still nothing changes - for now. The mindset of our people - and by our people I mean those who already know what is happening and what must be changed, what goals must be met - is still too poisoned by our enemy's propaganda."    Police / Shooting / Zámocká Street / Read more Shooting in the center of Bratislava claimed two lives, the perpetrator is dead According to Bránik, "weeks ago, he systematically dealt with the selection of suitable targets for a series of attacks on everything Jewish; According to him, homosexuality was their invention, he even found a piece of the enemy even in today's Russia - more precisely in that part of it, which is said to be managed and controlled by Jews."  Bránik reminded that the attack was not personal, the killer did not know the victim, he only knew the business. "During repeated unobtrusive inspections, he knew his weaknesses, vulnerabilities and also the right time to strike," said the security expert.  The police are also working with the version that he committed the murder with his father's gun. In the past, he was a candidate for Harabin's Vlasť party. Bránik pointed out that the young killer comes from an environment where a hateful narrative was strongly present.  The perpetrator reported the attack himself on the Twitter social network under the nickname NTMA0315. Twitter blocked the account early in the morning, but the attacker was active on the 4chan.org platform.  At 19:39 he published a post with the hashtags #hatecrime #gaybar #bratislava (#hatecrime #gaybar). "I feel no remorse, isn't it funny?" he wrote a minute later.  The attacker managed to escape from the scene. According to our information, the police should have found him in Jasko rad. "2-1, it's not my problem. I could have gone higher, but never mind. I wanted to kill the prime minister too, but I wasn't lucky enough to have his car come," he commented on 4chan last night.  Subsequently, he fulfilled the challenges of commentators, who invited him to put a shoe on his head or to write a date and a sentence on a piece of paper. This method is often used to verify the identity of the contributor, i.e. whether he is not a "troll".  About five hours before the shooting, a 65-page document was published that is full of racist and hateful references. The author calls it a manifesto against Jews and LGBTI people and calls for violence against these communities.  The killer was supposed to wait for the victims in front of the business. Subsequently, according to HNonline, he was supposed to shoot with a weapon equipped with a laser sight. He was supposed to fire eight shots first. He then reloaded the gun and continued shooting with several more shots. In the process, he also injured a female customer, whom he shot in the leg. The reasons for the act are still unknown, but the manifesto shows that he acted out of hatred.  President Zuzana Čaputová honored the victims... In the manifesto, the shooter mentions the supremacy of the white race, which, according to the author, is oppressed by Zionist organizations. It refers to Matthew F. Hale, who is an American white supremacist, neo-Nazi leader and convicted felon. Hale was the founder of a white separatist group from East Peoria, Illinois.  The author often mentions frustrated white men who, according to him, need to take action. According to him, the enemies of the author's vision of the world must die. "This time the real Holocaust will come," he urged. In the text, he claims that the Holocaust never happened. "But if they did, they deserved it. It's a shame that the work was not completed," he added.  "Reject the 'multipolar order', accept European domination," he mentions in a hate-filled text. In the text, he speaks to lost and sad people without love. “A group of five guys like you, sent straight to Davos during a certain summit, armed with automatic rifles and as many grenades as you can hold. You would do a much better job than 5 men with families and large social circles,” he proclaimed.  The World Economic Forum is held in Davos every year, where the leaders of the countries meet. Subsequently, he devoted himself to mental preparation and planning attacks. In the attacks, he wanted to focus on politicians, journalists, policemen and their families, soldiers, Jews, or ethnic groups. He refers to the books of nationalists and the so-called 'fighters for the white race'.  The killer should also have an account on the social platform reddit.com. However, it should have been blocked because it added instructions on how to make a bomb at home.  The school condemned violence and hatred  The School for Exceptionally Gifted Children and the Gymnasium in Bratislava's Nové Mesto district condemned forms and expressions of violence and hatred. In her opinion, she confirmed that the perpetrator of the tragic shooting in Bratislava was her pupil. She also stated that the student did not express radical or hateful views in class.  "During the student's tenure after transferring to our school, we did not notice any negative expressions on his part, any efforts to communicate in this context, any influence on other students, and he did not express his radical and hateful views even during classes," the school said in a statement. He seemed like a quiet, accommodating and non-confrontational type. "It was his inner individual world that he led on social networks that we only learned about after the fact," school officials added.  The school stressed that it is not identified with any unnecessary death and condemns any form and expression of violence and hatred. "At the moment, the organization of support crisis teams for students and school employees is underway," they explained.  The school administration expressed its sincere condolences to the families and loved ones of the victims. "The whole school is traumatized by the situation," they wrote. The school reminded that it guides its students to freedom, empathy, tolerance and at the same time to condemning any hatred or other forms of intolerance. "So far, we have not noticed any manifestations of neo-fascism, racial intolerance and negative or even violent behavior in the school, which would lead to any form of hatred or to the suppression of the freedoms of any groups, including racial, national, religious or biological groups, minorities," they said. They emphasized that diversity is in the identity of the school, which is the exact opposite of the act that happened.    victims2 Read more Who are the shooter's victims? A student who worked in a bar and his friend The school considers the two-year period of distance education, when children were dependent on computer communication, especially social networks, to have a negative impact on the psyche and personality of students. "It is not in our power to control the activities of students on private, undisclosed accounts, as was the case in this particular case," they emphasized, adding that the school cannot replace the conditions of the family environment and the influence of social networks that currently determine today's youth."