  What you need to know
If there’s one thing I want you to get from these writings, it’s that White birth rates must change. Everyday the White population becomes fewer in number. To maintain a population the people must achieve a birth rate that reaches replacement fertility levels, in the western world that is about 2.06 births per woman.
The ONLY White country that reaches these levels is Argentina, at 2.247.
But not in Europe, not in the rest of the Americas, not in Australia or New Zealand. White people are failing to reproduce, failing to create families, failing to have children. But despite this sub-replacement fertility rate, the population in the West is increasing rapidly.
How is this possible?
Mass immigration and the higher fertility rates of the immigrants themselves are causing this increase in population. We are experiencing an invasion on a level never seen before in history. Millions of people pouring across our borders, legally. Invited by the state and corporate entities to replace the White people who have failed to reproduce, failed to create the cheap
 
 labor, failed to create new consumers and tax base that the corporations and states need to have to thrive.
This crisis of mass immigration and sub-replacement fertility is an assault on the European people that, if not combated, will ultimately result in the complete racial and cultural replacement of the European people.
To see this in full effect, you only have to look at the population statistics in Western nations for the year 2050.
List_of_countries_by_future_population_(United_Nations,_medium_fertility_variant)
In 2050, despite the ongoing effect of sub-replacement fertility, the population figures show that the population does not decrease inline with the sub-replacement fertility levels, but actually maintains and, even in many White nations, rapidly increases.
All through immigration. This is ethnic replacement. This is cultural replacement. This is racial replacement.
This is WHITE GENOCIDE.
To return to replacement fertility levels is priority number one. But it is no simple task. There are myriad reasons behind the decline in fertility rates and the destruction of the traditional family unit.
We must inevitably correct the disaster of hedonistic, nihilistic individualism. But it will take some time, time we do not have due to the crisis of mass immigration. Due to mass immigration we lack the time scale required to enact the civilizational paradigm shift we need to undertake to return to health and prosperity. Mass immigration will disenfranchise us, subvert our nations, destroy our communities, destroy our ethnic ties, destroy our cultures, destroy our peoples. Long before low fertility levels ever could. Thus, before we deal with the fertility rates, we must deal with both the invaders within our lands and the invaders that seek to enter our lands.
We must crush immigration and deport those invaders already living on our soil. It is not just a matter of our prosperity, but the very survival of our people.
About me
My name is Payton Gendron, I was born on June 20, 2003, which makes me 18 years old as of writing this. I am the sole perpetrator of the recent attempted mass shooting. I lived in Southern Tier, New York all my life with both my parents and 2 brothers. I believe I am ethnically white since my parent’s nationalities are from north-western Europe and Italy. I graduated highschool with a regents diploma with advanced designation and am currently
 
 enrolled in SUNY Broome with a major in Engineering Science. I would love to continue this but there are bigger problems I’m more concerned with. I am not a warfighter, nor have I been enrolled in any military or tactical training, so excuse any mistakes I make during my attack. I was never diagnosed with a mental disability or disorder, and I believe to be perfectly sane. Recently I took an MBTI test, as seen below:
 And my most recent self pictures are below:
  The truth is my personal life and experiences are of no value. I am simply a White man seeking to protect and serve my community, my people, my culture, and my race.

 Questions and Answers
Why did you decide to carry out the attack?
To show to the replacers that as long as the White man lives, our land will never be theirs and they will never be safe from us.
To directly reduce immigration rates to European lands by intimidating and physically removing the replacers themselves.
To intimidate the replacers already living on our lands to emigrate back to their home countries.
To agitate the political enemies of my people into action, to cause them to overextend their own hand and experience the eventual and inevitable backlash as a result.
To incite violence, retaliation and further divide between the European people and the replacers currently occupying European soil.
To show the effect of direct action, lighting a path forward for those that wish to follow. A path for those that wish to free their ancestors lands from the replacers grasp and to be a beacon for those that wish to create a lasting culture, to tell them they are not alone.
To create an atmosphere of fear and change in which drastic, powerful and revolutionary action can occur.
To add momentum to the pendulum swings of history, further destabilizing and polarizing Western society in order to eventually destroy the current nihilistic, hedonistic, individualistic insanity that has taken control of Western thought.
Most of all it was to spread awareness to my fellow Whites about the real problems the West is facing, and to encourage further attacks that will eventually start the war that will save the Western world, save the White race and allow for humanity to progress into more advanced civilizations.
What do you want ?
We must ensure the existence of our people and a future for white children.
Who do you represent?
Millions of European and other ethno-nationalist peoples that wish to live in peace amongst their own people, living in their own lands, practicing their own traditions, and deciding the future of their own kind.
Are you a part of any political group or movement?
I am not a direct member of any organization or group, though I support many.
Did the groups you support/are aligned with order or promote your attack?
No, I am the sole perpetrator of this attack. I’ve had many influences from others but it was only me who decided to continue this.

 Do these groups hold power/who are the people in these groups?
The total number of people in these organizations is in the millions, the total number of groups in the thousands. People from every walk of life, in every place of employment and field but disproportionately employed in military services and public service occupations. Unsurprisingly ethno-nationalists and nationalists seek employment in areas that serve their nations and community.
Where did you get your current beliefs?
Mostly from the internet. There was little to no influence on my personal beliefs by people I met in person. I read multiple sources of information from all ideologies and decided that my current one is most correct.
Did you carry out the attack for fame?
I carried this attack out so I can influence others into defending themselves from the replacers, becoming infamous was the only way.
Why did you target those people?
They are an obvious, visible, and large group of replacers. From a culture with higher fertility rates and strong, robust traditions that seek to occupy my peoples lands and ethnically replace my own people. It would have eased me if I knew all the blacks I would be killing were criminals or future criminals, but then I realized all black people are replacers just by existing in White countries.
Over what timespan did you plan the attack?
I’ve been passively preparing for this attack like every American does; by buying ammo, surplus military gear and shooting irregularly for a few years. It wasn’t until the beginning of January 2022 that I actually got serious.
Why did you choose this particular moment in time to attack?
The best time to attack was yesterday, the next best time is today. Everyday that goes by without an attack, hundreds of more non-whites immigrate to White countries and spawn children. Waiting any longer will only make it more difficult to get non-whites out later on.
Why did you choose firearms?
Because they work, there are very few weapons that are easier to use and more effective at killing than firearms, especially the Bushmaster XM-15 I will be using. The effect it would have on social discourse, the extra media coverage they would provide, and the changes to gun laws that will be pushed will all help my case.

 Why did you choose (REDACTED) for the place of attack?
(REDACTED) has the highest black population percentage (zip code *****) and isn’t that far away. Plus NY has heavy gun laws so it would ease me if I knew that any legally armed civilian was limited to 10 round magazines or cucked firearms.
I replaced the name of the city to redacted because I’d prefer that the FBI and local police don’t know until the attack has started. After the attack can somebody switch it over plz?
Do you consider the attack an act of terrorism?
By definition yes. But I believe it is a partisan action against an occupying force.
Do you feel any remorse for the attack?
I don’t know I haven’t done it yet stupid. But if I were to guess it would be yes.
Did, or do you personally hate blacks?
A black man or woman living in their homelands? No.
A black man or woman choosing to invade our lands, live on our soil, live on government support and attack and replace our people? Yes, I dislike them.
The only people I truly hate are the converts, those from our own people that turn their backs on their heritage, turn their backs on their cultures, turn their back on their traditions and become blood traitors to their own race. They are not completely hopeless however. I believe some can come back, so it’s important to welcome them when they are awoken instead of shaming and ostracizing them.
Did or do you personally hate foreigners or other cultures?
No, many people and their cultures are great, but it’s important to note that they can only stay great if they are separated from each other.
Do you believe those you attacked were innocent?
There is no non-white living on White lands that is innocent.
Did you intend to survive the attack?
Yes, but death was a definite possibility. These situations are chaotic and virtually impossible to control, no matter the planning. Survival was a better alternative to death in order to further spread my ideals by media coverage and to deplete resources from the state by my own imprisonment.
Was the attack anti-immigration in origin?
Yes, beyond all doubt, anti-immigration, anti-ethnic replacement and anti-cultural replacement.

 Was the attack anti-diversity in origin?
No, the attack was not an attack on diversity, but an attack in the name of diversity.
To ensure that the peoples of the world remain true to their traditions and faiths and do not become watered down and corrupted by the influence of outsiders, they must be separate. The attack was to ensure a preservation of beauty, art and tradition. In my mind a rainbow is only beautiful due to its variety of colors. Mix the colors together and you destroy them all and they are gone forever and the end result is far from anything beautiful.
Did you intend to kill police officers or other enforcers of the state?
No. Although modern police officers exist to serve the “elite”, many of them are of decent character and it would make me very upset if I killed one. But only you know if I did.
If you survived, did you intend to go to trial?
Yes, and to plead guilty.
Are you a Christian?
No. I do not ask God for salvation by faith, nor do I confess my sins to Him. I personally believe there is no afterlife. I do however believe in and practice many Christian values.
Are you a facsist?
Yes, fascism is one of the only political ideologies that will unite Whites against the replacers. Since that is what I seek, calling me a facsist would be accurate.
Are you a white supremacist?
Yes, I would call myself a white supremacist, afterall, which race is responsible for the world we live in today? I believe the White race is superior in the brain to all other races.
Are you racist?
Yes I am racist because I believe in differences of capabilities between races.
Are you intolerant?
Sure. The last virtues of a dying nation are tolerance and apathy, and I want none of it.
Are you an anti-semite?
YES!! I wish all JEWS to HELL! Go back to hell where you came from DEMON!
But in reality, a Jew confined to Judea where he can’t spread his people or beliefs is of no
concern to me. It’s important to note that with proper connection to the internet, that is impossible.

 Are you a neo-nazi?
I support neo-nazism but I am not a member of any neo-nazi groups, you decide what that makes me.
Are you a conservative?
No, conservatism is corporatism in disguise, I want no part of it.
Are you a homophobe/anti-LGBTQ?
I believe that problems involving the LGB (drop the t) are very insignificant, if one is actually part of the LGB or LGB group and they are loyal to their people that is fine with me. Transgenderism however is a mental illness and should be addressed as such.
Are you “right wing”?
Depending on the definition, sure.
Are you “left wing”?
Depending on the definition, sure.
Are you a socialist?
Depending on the definition. Worker ownership of the means of production? It depends on who those workers are, their intentions, who currently owns the means of production, their intentions and who currently owns the state, and their intentions.
By living in the United States, weren’t you an immigrant yourself?
Yes, and it seems we immigrants seem to bring a whole host of issues. Although the land technically belongs to its native people, The United States now belongs to Whites because removing Whites from all of the United States is impossible. They are simply rooted too deeply into the land. The same thing applies with other White countries that are not in Europe.
Is there a particular person that radicalized you the most?
Yes and his name is Brenton Harrison Tarrant. Brenton’s livestream started everything you see here. Brenton started my real research into the problems with immigration and foreigners in our White lands, without his livestream I would likely have no idea about the real problems the West is facing.
Were you taught violence and extremism by video games, music, literature, cinema?
No, only the truth caused me to seek violence.

 Did you always hold these views?
When I was 12 I was deep into communist ideology, talk to anyone from my old highschool and ask about me and you will hear that. From age 15 to 18 however, I consistently moved farther to the right. On the political compass I fall in the mild-moderate authoritarian left category, and I would prefer to be called a populist.
Were your beliefs given to you by your family/friends/society etc?
No, politics was never really discussed in my family or old friend groups.
Who do you consider white?
Those that are ethnically and culturally European.
Who do you consider non-white?
Those who are not ethnically and culturally European.
Do you consider yourself a leader?
No, just a partisan.
Did/do you have ties to any other partisans/freedom fighters/ethno soldiers?
I support many of those that take a stand against ethnic and cultural genocide. Brenton Tarrant, Patrick Crusius, John Earnest, Robert Bowers,Phillip Manshaus, Luca Traini, Anders Breivik, Dylann Roof, Anton Lundin Pettersson, Darren Osbourne etc.
I have never had any connections with other confirmed partisans though.
If convicted, do you expect to stay in prison?
Yes, I do wish to see how the world plays out after all. If I become old in the same prison I would only assume that we have passed the point of no return and will die out, and that I have failed. If we do rise up against the replacers, I expect that I will be let out and honored amongst my people.
Why do you care so much about Europe, aren’t you an American?
The United States, just like the rest of the colonies of Europe, is simply an off-shoot of the European people. A finger on the hand of the body of Europe.
The origins of my language are European, my culture is European, my political beliefs are European, my philosophical beliefs are European, my identity is European and most importantly, my blood is European.

 Answers to my people/supporters questions
What are your views?
I would prefer to call myself a populist. But you can call me an ethno-nationalist eco-fascist national socialist if you want, I wouldn’t disagree with you.
Who do you support?
Those that wish for a future for white children and the existence of our people.
Who do you follow?
No one person in particular, I support many groups but I am a member of none.
Are you a fed/shill/mossad agent/false flag/patsy/imposter/antifa/“three letter agent glow so bright” ect?
No, I don’t think so. Who knows maybe it’s the two shots of covid vaccine juice going through my bloodstream that’s really making me do this.
It’s healthy to have skepticism of course, but don’t let your skepticism turn you away from people who support you.
What do you encourage us to do?
Make plans, get training, form alliances, get equipped and then act. The time for meekness has long since passed, the time for a democratic solution has long since passed.
Men of the West must be men once more.
Is this your complete writings and views?
My discord transcript should also be available, which is much less formal than this and covers some personal and other information. I would have put a lot more work into this manifesto if I had the time to.

 Answers to detractors and to those that oppose my beliefs/methods
Won’t your attack do more harm than good?
No, there isn’t a successful, influential grand movement established just yet, and no leading organizations, so there is no great structure created that could be brought to harm.
As for how the public perceives us? Did they perceive us any differently after the attack than they did before?
Won’t your attack result in calls for the removal of gun rights in the United States?
Yes, that is the plan all along, you said you would fight to protect your rights and the constitution, soon will come the time.
You’re a bigot, racist, xenophobe, nazi, fascist!
Ok and?
Do you actually believe this garbage?
Yes, I have never felt more sure about anything else.
Democracy is the only solution, why are you committing to force?
Democracy is mob rule and the mob itself is ruled by our enemies. The global and corporate-run press controls them, the education system (long since fallen to the long march through the institutions carried out by the marxists) controls them, the state (long since heavily lost to its corporate backers) controls them and the anti-white media machine controls them.
Do not suffer under the delusion of an effortless, riskless democratic victory. Prepare for war, prepare for violence and prepare for risk, loss, struggle, death. Force is the only path to power and the only path to true victory.
Violence isn’t the answer, why are you using force?
There is no nation in the world that wasn’t founded by, or maintained by, the use of force. Force is power. History is the history of power. Violence is power and violence is the reality of history. Violence is the only way to make real change in the world. The reason why peaceful protests are allowed is because they don’t make an actual difference.
What makes you think that you have all the answers?
I don’t, but I may have some. Take from my views that which works, discard that which does not. Victory is all that matters.
What makes you believe you can speak for a group?
I speak for my views and my ideals, and those that support me. Some may agree with them, others won’t.

 What makes you believe you are European, not just an American?
I am a descendant of ethnic Europeans so I must be an ethnic European myself.
What makes you believe there are racial differences and that those differences matter?
Research and data. Haplogroups, phenotypes and globalized testing. I will try to explain many of these below.
Why do you blame immigrants and not the capitalists?
Both are the problem, and I would like to address the concept of hard and soft targets here. Hard targets are people with strong political powers, such as president’s, prime ministers, judge’s, media producers, and military leaders. Soft targets include the everyday man, with low, weak political power. To cleanse an area, both must be removed, one cannot only attack the blacks of Buffalo and expect the zog-bot government to fall as well, just as one cannot attack the zog-bot government and expect the blacks to fall. Both have to be addressed, I am simply attacking one at a time.
Why attack immigrants when the Jews are the issue?
Because they can be dealt with in time, but the high fertility replacers will destroy us now, it is a matter of survival we destroy them first.
Why attack blacks if all high fertility immigrants are the issue?
I will admit non-white hispanics are also replacers in the United States, and is also a problem White’s will have to deal with. I can’t possibly attack all groups at once so might as well target one.
If you believe we need to correct the white birth rates, why didn’t you start a family and do it yourself?
Starting a large family will not solve this problem. This is simply an issue that I cannot solve that way because it wouldn’t change anything. The replacers will continue replacing and the immigrants will continue immigrating.
Children are always innocent, do you not think you are a monster for killing an innocent?
Children of replacers do not stay children, they become adults and reproduce, creating more replacers to replace your people. They grow up and vote against your peoples own wishes, for the interests of their own people and identity. They grow up and take the potential homes of your people for themselves, they occupy positions of power, remove wealth and destroy social trust.
Any invader you kill, of any age, is one less enemy your children will have to face. Would you rather do the killing, or leave it to your children? Your grandchildren?

 Was there a particular event or reason you decided to commit to a violent attack?
Before I begin I will say that I was not born racist nor grew up to be racist. I simply became racist after I learned the truth.
I started browsing 4chan in May 2020 after extreme boredom, remember this was during the outbreak of covid. I would normally browse /k/ because I’m a gun nut and /out/ because I love the outdoors and I eventually wound up on /pol/. There I learned through infographics, shitposts, and memes that the White race is dying out, that blacks are disproportionately killing Whites, that the average black takes $700,000 from tax-payers in their lifetime, and that the Jews and the elite were behind this. From there, I also found other sites, like worldtruthvideos.website, dailyarchives.org, and dailystormer.cn where through data and exposure to real information I learned the truth. We are doomed by low birth rates and high rates of immigration. I never even saw this information until I found these sites, since mostly I would get my news from the front page of Reddit. I didn’t care at the time, but as I learned more and more I realized how serious the situation was. Eventually I couldn’t take it anymore, I told myself that eventually I was going to kill myself to escape this fate. My race was doomed and there was nothing I could do about it.
But then after browsing /pol/ one day I saw a short gif of a man walking into a building and shooting a shotgun through a dark hallway. I didn’t think anything of it, but then I saw it again, and I looked up who this person was. I thought to myself, “Why did this person do it?”
That person was Brenton Tarrant, and after some searches I found the 17 minute livestream of him attacking the Al-Noor mosque. I eventually found his manifesto and I read it, and I found that I mostly agreed with him.
Finally I thought to myself, perhaps there is a chance that we can combat this. Maybe there is a chance that we can take control and prevent our genocide. Maybe we can combat the hedonistic, nihilistic, and individualist insanity that has taken control western thought. I then found other fighters, like Patrick Crucius, Anders Breivek, Dylann Roof, and John Earnest. These men fought for me and had the same goals I did. It was there I asked myself:
Why don’t I do something?
Finally I felt awakened.
It was there I started to think about commiting to an attack. To commit to violence. I would follow Tarrant’s lead and the attacks of so many others like him.
No longer would I just accept our replacement.
No longer would I just accept our genocide.
No longer will I willingly serve the people who are trying to end me and my race. I would have to take the fight to the replacers myself.

 Gold is much more difficult to get into because American gold coins stopped being manufactured in 1933, and is much rarer than silver coins, which were discontinued in 1964. Gold bullion also exists and is measured in troy ounces or grams as well. I know you know gold jewelry exists and is also an option.
Fakes exist and make me quite frustrated. I think in my lifetime I’ve had 1 fake Morgan dollar and a fake 1933 double eagle a family member (?) gave to me. 1 fake peace dollar that I accidently bought and returned, and 1 fake 1803 bust dollar someone tried to sell me. The best way to tell if metal is what it’s claimed to be is to Sigma test it, but those machines are quite expensive. Normally I measure the mass, measure the dimensions, and ping test it to make sure it’s right before I buy any silver, and for gold I would only buy it if it can be sigma tested.
Banks are run by the Jews, we should all know this by now. Banks offer the protection of your money and wealth but at the cost of ruining the AMERICAN DREAM. They give YOUR money away for loans. Why did we let the Jews psyop the world into forgetting about real money? Because they want to control the whole economy by DEBT.
The (((money printers))) have the capabilities to print as much money as they want to continue this debt-based fiat system that we have currently. The only way to stop it without revolution is to stop using fiat altogether. I’ll say this again but this time in caps: GET OUT OF FIAT WHILE YOU STILL CAN
Maybe you don’t believe me when I say that precious metals are the best option. That is perfectly fine. There are other resources and investments that will pay you great dividends in the future. I would look into land development, self sustaining equipment, and knowledge and practice of real skills.
So like I said before... *breathes in*
GET OUT OF FIAT WHILE YOU STILL CAN!!
Weapons, Equipment, and Mentality of the Attacker
The greatest weapon a human has is not a firearm, explosive, or nuclear weapon, but the mind. We as humans are blessed to have such a powerful brain that can effectively solve nearly any problem that comes our way. Through logic, reasoning, and willpower, humans dominated the Earth. The brain is the most important tool a person uses everyday, and is the most deadly weapon an attacker can use.
An attacker must first go through with an attack in their mind. They must plan everything they can. Commiting to an attack without any real thought or planning will only damage your chances of being successful. I’ll insert my plans and thoughts here, critique this as much as possible.
Goals:
-Kill as many blacks as possible -Avoid dying
-Spread ideals
 
 Strategies for success:
-To maximize deaths of the intended target, attack in a high density, highly populated area. -The weapon must be able to kill quickly and efficiently. A firearm that is light, deadly to others (basically all firearms fit this category), can fire ammunition as quickly as needed, can hold many rounds of ammunition without reloading, and can reload quickly are most optimal for this attack.
-Prioritize high threat level targets first.
-Be able to physically do all exercises.
-To minimize the chance of instant death from a CCW holder, police, or general armed citizen, body armor and ballistic helmet that will stop the intended threat will be needed.
-A car can be used to quickly transport the attacker and his equipment, most cars are good enough for this application.
-Proper planning of the attack route is needed.
-Attacking in a weapon-restricted area may decrease the chance of civilian backlash. Schools, courts, or areas where CCW are outlawed or prohibited may be good areas of attack. Areas where CCW permits are low may also fit in this category. Areas with strict gun laws are also great places of attack.
-Having a medical kit that can treat expected wounds is needed.
-Greater public influence may be acheived by using techniques that increase media coverage.
Strategy application:
-Zip code 14208 in Buffalo has the highest black percentage that is close enough to where I live. -Top’s Market is an area in zip code 14208 where a high percentage and high density of blacks can be found.
-Top’s Market has 1 or 2 armed security guards with full size glocks, IIIA armor will stop their ammunition.
-According to Google and independent study, 4:00 PM on Friday is the most populated time at Top’s.
-I made a map of the inside and decided the best plan of attack for highest chance of success -NY has cucked gun laws. Assault style weapons and high capacity magazines are illegal for civilians to own, thus lowering threats from law-abiding civilians.
-The AR-15 and its variants are very deadly when used properly. Which is the reason why I picked one. High capacity magazines and ammunition that causes (enough) ballistic damage to kill effectively will be used. The AR-15 is readily accessible even in cucked New York, and after some modifications will be able to effectively kill. Plus, the media loves to hate on the AR-15, which may increase media coverage and public outlash.
-I will be wearing decent body armor and a helmet to protect from other people’s firearms.
-I will have a JFAK on my belt in case I need to treat myself for gunshot or sharp/blunt weapon wounds.
-I will use my car to store my guns and transport myself around quickly.

 -Video will be livestreamed and manifesto published online to increase coverage and spread my beliefs.
The plan of action:
-At home I will pick up all my gear and put it in an industrial trash bag, then I will put this bag in a laundry basket and place it on the floor in front of the passenger seat. I will put the three guns (two of them have carriers) behind my seat with a blanket over them to cover it from outsiders. I will also have discord at my house running a live recording of my twitch account.
-I eat a large portion of corn beef hash for breakfast
-I will leave my house at 7:30 and travel to Buffalo in regular clothing, should arrive just before 12:00
-At 12:00 I will go inside the store for the second to last time and make sure everything is as expected
-I will follow my planned course of action and make sure I know exactly where to go between 12:00 and 2:45. I will also get some food at McDonalds.
-At 3:30 I will park in the designated gear up spot off of Sherman St and fully gear up. I will take my 3 guns out of their carriers and put them in the passenger seat of my car. I chamber the shotgun and add another in the magazine tube, and do the same to the savage axis. Both of these guns will have the safety engaged. (I may change the location I gear up if I determine it is too risky.)
-At 3:50 I will publish my 8chan post on 8chan.moe, 4chan post on 4chan linked to 8chan post, send links to the discord servers I’m in, and send links to all people on my discord friend list. After I’m done posting I will take the XM-15 and properly wear the sling and place the gun to the left of my legs. I insert the coupled magazines, chamber a round with the M855 mag and make sure the gun is on safe.
-At 3:55 I start the livestream, and make it out onto Sherman St, I will take a right on to High St, take a right onto Johnson St, make it across Best St onto Wohlers Ave, and park on the side of the road just before Riley St.
-At 3:57 I will turn the check my discord and check the camera to make sure the livestream is working
-At 3:58 I take a left on Riley St, I then turn into the parking lot at Top’s and disengage the safety on my XM-15.
-At about ~4:00 I park in front of the store right before the support beam, kick open the door and jump out of my car. In training this full action took between 2-3 seconds.

  -I first shoot the security guard and kill him by shooting through the front doors of the glass. His most common areas are located in orange. There is an overhand based on the camera position I should be in the camera’s blindspot. He should be just at the entrance of the store, if not at the cash registers. They may still have the glocks attached to them or they may have dropped it. If possible I kick the glocks away to a wall so it can not be used against me.
-I shoot all black people twice in the chest if possible, I turn left to the cash registers and open fire on the expected crowd of people at the cash registers. According to user reviews the store is notorious for being slow. Some will run away along the aisles. I make sure I never stop firing.
-I make it on the other side of the aisles and continue firing on all blacks, I go into the customers only area to check for runners and hiders, and make it to the deli and then back to the entrance. -I shoot all downed blacks twice in the head, making my way to the register and aisles again, and back to the deli and back to the entrance.
-It should be leaving at about 4:04.
-Then I will go into my car and make it south on Jefferson Ave. Where I will take my Mossberg 500 and Savage Axis out from the seat and shoot at blacks on the streets.

 -If all is expected I should pass some responding patrol officers at this time on Jefferson.
-I pass the House of China and start making my way across the Emslie neighborhoods, using all weapons I have available to me to shoot at nearby blacks.
-I should be stopped by police officers eventually in Emslie and then surrender to them. Or if I find another decent location the day of the attack (example being Walmart) I’ll head there.
Most importantly, the attacker must go through with the attack in their mind, it is very difficult for a normal person even with all the information to carry out an attack that will kill another human being, or the fact that you may die that day. I don’t think there really is a way to train for this, but confidence in your goals and equipment may ease them. I think that live streaming this attack gives me some motivation in the way that I know that some people will be cheering for me. I am also decently protected by my armor so that gives me some confidence as well. Training with my guns also gives me confidence knowing exactly what I can expect by shooting them.
The Weapon
Of course how is one expected to kill another without a weapon? I will be using firearms as my primary weapon for this attack. Why? Because they work. There are very few weapons that are easier to use, accessible, and effective at killing than firearms. The weapons I will be using for this attack are a Bushmaster XM-15, Mossberg 500, and a Savage Axis XP. Bushmaster XM-15 E2S Target
This is my Bushmaster XM-15. That’s right, I used the dreaded military grade assault rifle-15 as my main firearm for this attack. This gun was most likely made between 1994 and 2004, when the Federal Assault Weapons Ban was still in action. I bought it from a place in Endicott called Vintage Firearms. Since I live in New York, I had to buy a cucked version of this before illegally modifying it. The person who had this before me installed a Mean Arms magazine lock, which fixed a 10 round magazine (higher capacity magazines are also illegal) to the gun. As seen in the next 2 photos...
 
   I used a Cobalt Speedout #2 drillbit and my dad’s power drill to take out the magazine lock, which I then replaced with an Anderson Manufacturing magazine release and spring, the same one I used can be found in the parts kit here.
I thought it was a good idea to buy a cheap lower parts kit just in case any of the parts inside breaks or malfunctions, considering the gun is quite old, but as of writing this nothing is wrong with any of the parts, so it just ended up being a waste of money.
In all honesty this is probably the worst AR-15 I could’ve bought for this mission, and I go over why down below. Since I live in cucked New York, and I am only 18, I can’t legally buy a lower or a standard “assault rifle” online. I can’t even afford the drilling equipment to make a lower out of a P80 build. My best choice would have probably been to drive around gun shops in NY and try and convince them to sell me a decent lower as a rifle, or by buying a complete fixed magazine rifle and just illegally modify it to allow me to use the illegal magazines I already had. I could’ve even bought an NY-safe featureless rifle, but what kind of cuck does that? I’ve thought about buying a lower online through some gun forum or something but I thought no matter what I would have to go through a background check at some point.
I’ll go through a list of some parts of this gun for my fellow gear queers out there. And as always, let’s go tip to butt...
Prepare for the cope by the way, I coped very hard writing this
(NOTE: I’m not a firearm expert, also legally I am required to tell you not to disobey gun laws (but in reality you can do whatever you want to))
 