“KILL THE BEST GENTILES!”
“Tob Shebbe Goyim Harog!” (THE TALMUD: Sanhedrin 59)

A nation can survive its fools and even the ambitious. But it cannot survive treason from within. An enemy at the gates is less formidable for he is known and carries his banners openly. But the traitor moves among those within the gates freely, his sly whispers rustling through all the alleys, heard in the very halls of government itself... for the traitor appears no traitor: He speaks in accents familiar to his victims, and he wears their faces and their garments, he appeals to the baseness that lies deep in the souls of all men. He rots the soul of a nation; he works secretly and unknown in the night to undermine the pillars of the city; he infects the body politic so that it can no longer resist. A murderer is to be less feared. — Cicero

“KILL THE BEST GENTILES!”
or
“Tob Shebbe Goyim Harog!” (THE TALMUD: Sanhedrin 59)
THE RACIALIST GUIDE
FOR THE PRESERVATION AND NURTURE OF THE WHITE GENE POOL
by
JAMES W. VON BRUNN
This is the free abridged version containing the first six of twelve chapters. Please purchase the entire book at our website:
http://www.holywesternempire.org
HOLY WESTERN EMPIRE, LLC. POST OFFICE BOX 2821 EASTON, MARYLAND 21601

Kill the Best Gentiles!
Copyright ©2002 Holy Western Empire, LLC.
FIRST EDITION
All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright Conven- tions. Published in the United States by Holy Western Empire (HWE), LLC.
United States Copyright Office: This book/manuscript may not be reproduced in any form or by any means without permission of the publisher.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: TXu 916-945, 10 September 1999
______________
HOLY WESTERN EMPIRE, LLC.
Post Office Box 2821, Easton, Maryland 21601, United States of America http://www.holywesternempire.org

Dedication
In Memory of:
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN G. CROMMELIN, USN. “Now, there was a man!”
++ +
John Geraerd Crommelin, Jr., Rear Admiral, USN, served in the Pacific Theater during WWII, as Executive Officer, and Air Officer, aboard the USS Enterprise, CV-6 (the most decorated ship in naval history). Crommelin, was acknowledged by the crew as the “heart and soul of the Big-E.” Later, holding the Legion of Merit with a Gold Star; a Combat “V,” a Presidential Unit Cita- tion, a Letter of Commendation, and a Purple Heart, he was given Command of the then most advanced aircraft carrier in the world, the USS Saipan (CVL-48).
In 1949 Admiral Crommelin precipitated a Congressional investigation that prevented powerful Communist influence within the U.S. government from crippling the U.S. Navy and tip- ping the balance of military power in favor of the Soviet Union. In 1987, Rear Admiral Crommelin was elected to the Carrier Hall of Fame, located aboard the preserved USS Yorktown (CV-10), Patriot's Point, Charleston, S.C. His plaque, next to that of Secre- tary of the Navy James Forrestal, reads:
“In 1949 he sacrificed his 4.0 Naval career by precipitating the ‘Admirals’ Revolt’ that saved Carrier Aviation.”
v

PREFACE
The purpose of this book is to present to WHITE YOUTH factual information conventionally suppressed or distorted by the mass media, and denied them by schools and universities — which are forced to promulgate the Marxist line or lose their government subsidies. Appearing throughout the text are quotes from world authorities whose credentials appear in the bibliography. Upon reading TOB SHEBBE GOYIM HAROG! (KILL THE BEST GENTILES!) you will understand that — despite loud protests of denial — an age old CONSPIRACY does exist to destroyWestern Civilization. At this moment we are engaged in a deadly war with the HISTORIC ENEMY to determine whether or not our Nation will endure. We are losing that war because an Iron Curtain of censorship has descended over the landscape abrogating the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Without Freedom of Speech our system of government cannot function. The hour is late. You and your family are in grave danger. We will present the FACTS then discuss what actions must be taken.
Best wishes,
James W. von Brunn
Post Office Box 2821
Easton, Maryland 21601
8 June 1999 (Remember the U.S.S. Liberty.)
vi

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. The Conspiracy
2. Khazars Invent Judaism
3. The Illuminati
4. Money
5. Spirochetes of Jew Syphilis 6. The “Holocaust” Hoax
7. Mendelism
8. The Negro
9. The Aryan Force
10. Parasitism USA
11. Pathology and Synthesis 12. Summing Up APPENDIX
Glossary
Bibliography Distinguished Personages EXHIBITS:
Arson
Letter to US SecNav Webb
Letter from Admiral Crommelin
Gen. Anderson news item
Letter to Talbot County Council Star-Democrat: Two (2) editorials in re Genetics
Poem by Josephine Beaty
Cicero ii
vii

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
More than anything else this book is a compilation of research data, ideas, and writings of men and women whom I admire, whose words have inspired me, and from whose writings I have liberally borrowed. I have attempted to acknowledge and credit my sources throughout this work. Special acknowledgement must be given to Oswald Spengler, Francis Parker Yockey, Wilmot Robertson, Revilo Oliver, and William Gayley Simpson. However, they should not be held accountable for the conclusion arrived at in my manuscript. In that sense the MS is my responsibility alone — as are its failures.
— JvB
viii

FOREWORD
For thou art a Holy people unto the Lord thy God. And the Lord hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto Himself above all the nations that are upon the earth.
THE HOLY BIBLE (Torah): Deuteronomy 14:2.
All property of other nations belongs to the Jewish nation which, consequently, is entitled to seize it without scruples... A Jew may act contrary to morality if profitable to himself or to Jews in general.
TALMUD: Schulchan Bruch, Choszen Hamiszpat 348.
We have fooled, bemused and corrupted the youth of the goyim by rearing them in principals and theories known to us to be false although it is by us they have been inculcated. PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION: Protocol 9:10.
You have not begun to appreciate the real depth of our guilt. We ARE intruders. We ARE disturbers. We ARE subvert- ers. We have taken your natural world, your ideals, your destiny, and played havoc with them. We have been at the bottom not merely of your last great war but of nearly all your wars; not only of the Russian but of every other revolution in your his- tory. We have brought discord and confusion, and frustration into your public life. We are still doing it. Who knows what great and glorious destiny might have been yours had we left you alone?
MARCUS ELI RAVAGE, JEW Century Magazine, January 1928.
Let me issue and control a nation’s money And I care not who makes its laws.
AMSCHEL MEYER ROTHSCHILD, JEW1 (1743-1812).
1. Throughout this book I have inserted into my own text, and into text quoted from others, words to identify individuals as Jews so that the reader will not have to depend upon context or memory to make the proper identification. — JvB
 
KILL THE BEST GENTILES
I
WE ARE WITNESSING today on the world stage a tragedy of enormous proportions: the calculated destruction of the White Race and the incomparable culture it repre- sents. Europe, former fortress of the West, is now over-run by hordes of non-Whites and mongrels. The same is true of Australia and Canada. The once productive White civiliza- tions of Rhodesia and South Africa, extorted by the ILLU- MINATI and its enforcement unit, the United States, have been forced into DEMOCRATIC governments, thereby sur- rendering their White families to the mercy of numerically superior and mentally inferior Negroes whose ancestors were incapable of inventing even the wheel. The most concen- trated attacks on the White Race, however, are occurring in the United States of America.
TIME magazine (4-9-90) reports that during the first half of the 21st Century (U. S. Census Bureau statistics), the White population of the United States will become a minor- ity in its own land! “The ‘browning of America’ will alter everything in society from politics and education, to indus- try, values and culture... the new world is here. It is now. And it is irreversibly the America to come.” TIME goes on to say: “The former majority will learn as a normal part of everyday life, the meaning of the Latin slogan engraved on our coins — E pluribus unum, one formed from many.”
Ben Wattenberg, JEW, spokesman for American Enter- prise Institute, Washington, D. C., commenting on Amer-
10

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ica’s static White birthrate, miscegenation and the flood of non-White immigration enthusiastically states: “There is a nice chance that the American myth is going to ratchet another step, in the 1990's and beyond, toward this idea that we are the UNIVERSAL NATION. That rings the bell of manifest destiny! We are a people with a mission and a sense of purpose, and we believe we have something to offer the world!”
The “American myth” (created by JEWS) alleging our Founding Fathers intended that all races, from pygmy to Ainu, be invited to our shores, is based on Thomas Jeffer- son's words in the Declaration of Independence: “...all men are created equal.” The meaning of this much quoted state- ment has been distorted by the ILLUMINATI which subjec- tively is re-writing history and wielding the alleged “HOLOCAUST” like a battle-ax at the heads of those pro- claiming genetic certainties: Men and races are NOT created equal.
Jefferson's statement can be understood only in context of his Era. Our Founding Fathers were Aryans, men of good breeding who understood, empirically, the great differences existing between strains of horses; strains of live-stock; races of men; and between individuals: knowledge confirmed today by the natural sciences of Genetics, Eugenics, and Anthropology. Hitler, as American boobs are beginning to learn, was not all wrong.
The Framers of our Constitution, representing thirteen slave holding colonies expected to build a bastion of Western
11

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Culture in America for their White progeny. Jefferson, owner of many slaves, was NOT endorsing racial equality. The thought would never have entered his head (He also said, “...the two races equally free cannot live together under the same government.”). Jefferson referred to equality before the law — as it pertained to the burning issue of the day:“Taxa- tion without representation.”
The Founders also wanted a government in which the supreme power lies in the People. The Founders knew, how- ever, that in this very imperfect world intelligent and capable people are always outnumbered by the unintelligent and incapa- ble. Ergo, the majority vote nullifies the intelligent vote. The Founders also knew that the masses are easily controlled by unscrupulous, ambitious men. Therefore, in their wisdom the Founders created a Republic with strong checks and bal- ances — NOT a DEMOCRACY — knowing that Democ- racy is intended to destroy the freedoms it presumes to protect. Accordingly, the franchise was held so precious that it was limited to White men deemed capable of exercising responsible votes. The Framers were influenced by Plato’s discourses contemning “rule by the majority,” and by the his- tory of that remarkable city-state, Athens, during the Golden Age of Pericles (c. 430 B.C.). Athen's total population of 130,000 consisted of 50,000 citizens (Greeks, closely inbred); 25,000 metics (Aliens in residence); and 55,000 slaves. In that highly acclaimed “Democracy” — which dis- proportionately produced many of history’s greatest men —
12

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
women, metics, and slaves were denied the vote; and citizens were forbidden to marry slaves.
Alexis de Tocqueville observed: to establish a power base in a DEMOCRACY it requires only that one profess belief in egalitarianism. This is precisely the stratagem initiated by the ILLUMINATI during the last half of 19th Century America. Fat with profits harvested in the Civil War, JEWS were like worms attacking a ripe cornfield. Their strategy, in accordance with the PROTOCOLS was: 1) Convert the American Republic into a DEMOCRACY; 2) Establish a Rothschild central-bank; 3) Capture the mass-media; 4) Enact a personal income tax; 5) Destroy White nationhood; and 6) hitch America's incredible resources, strength and cre- ative energies to JEW aspirations, among which was the destruction of Germany, avowed enemy of LIBERALISM/ MARXISM/JEWRY and Fatherland of the White Race. Emma Lazarus, JEW (1849-1887), signaled her tribe’s inten- tions toward our Republic in a poem, (“The New Colossus”) inscribed on the base of the Statue of Liberty, inviting the world's “wretched refuse” to America's golden shores — Yah- weh's GARBAGE DUMP. JEWS tend to destroy what they most envy.
LIBERALISM/JEWRY/MARXISM was the formula used by Woodrow Wilson, and Franklin D. Roosevelt, both Democrats, to betray their Nation. The former a naïf, bleed- ing heart sophist, blackmailed for his “Peck-o-dills” by U. S. Zionists; the latter a ruthless egotist bearing deep-seated mal- ice toward his own race (“Some of my best friends are com-
13

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
munists”). Under Wilson, DEMOCRACY replaced our Republic; America’s monetary system was placed in ILLU- MINATI hands; and JEWS received the Balfour Declaration (guaranteeing a Jewish “Homeland”), quid pro quo, for bringing America into WWI. Under Roosevelt, LIBERAL- ISM/MARXISM/JEWRY triumphed over Western Civiliza- tion. JEWS were guaranteed the state of ISRAEL quid pro quo for again bringing America into war against Germany (WWII). “The most gallant stag can be brought to its knees with enough dogs at its throat.” (William G. Simpson)
The “people with a mission” referred to by Ben Watten- berg, JEW, above, are GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE whose messianic mission, as the Old Testament, Talmud and Proto- cols make abundantly clear, is the destruction of all Gentile nations through miscegenation and wars. The resultant dispirited, “brown proletariat-herd” is to be known euphe- mistically as the UNIVERSAL NATION.
Since WWII the ZIONIST OCCUPIED GOVERN- MENT OF THE UNITED STATES (ZOG) has welcomed huge numbers of fecund non-White immigrants predicated upon the ideology that diversity is better. Paradoxically, the LIBERAL establishment is engaged in a counterculture cam- paign designed to eliminate diversity through racial miscege- nation. These inconsistent concepts share a singular ILLUMINATI goal — destruction of the Aryan race.
Approval of inter-racial breeding is predicated on idiotic Christian dogma that God’s children must love their enemies (a concept JEWS totally reject); and on LIBERAL/MARX-
14

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
IST/JEW propaganda that all men/races are created equal. These genocidal ideologies, preached from the American pulpits, taught in American schools, legislated in the halls of Congress (confirming TALMUDIC conviction that goyim are stupid sheep), are expected to produce a single, super- intelligent, beautiful, non-White “American” population. Eliminating forever racism, inequality, bigotry and war. As with ALL LIBERAL ideologies, miscegenation is totally inconsistent with Natural Law: the species are improved through in-breeding, natural selection and mutation. Only the strong survive. Cross-breeding Whites with species lower on the evolutionary scale diminishes the White gene-pool while increasing the number of physiologically, psychologi- cally and behaviorally deprived mongrels. Throughout his- tory improvident Whites have miscegenated. The “brotherhood” concept is not new (as LIBERALS pretend) nor are the results — which are inevitably disastrous for the White Race — evident today, for example, in the botched populations of Cuba, Mexico, Egypt, India, and the inner cities of contemporary America.
How differently TALMUDISTS protect their gene- pool! JEWRY has no intention of becoming part of the UNI- VERSAL NATION they are creating for the dumb goyim. United Nations representative Count Folke Bernadotte, before the Irgun murdered him, proposed that Palestinians and JEWS live together under a DEMOCRATIC govern- ment. Palestinians accepted. JEWS violently refused, demanding a State exclusively for JEWS. DEMOCRATIC
15

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
DIVERSITY is good only for goyim! JEWS — who have made anti-Semitism a profitable business: who bomb their own synagogues; scribble graffiti on their own tombs; mouth “HOLOCAUST” lies — are revealed today as the world's most virulent ANTI-SEMITES: murdering Arabs at every opportunity and screaming for U.S. assistance when the dis- possessed “terrorists” fight back.
Survival of the JEW nation depends upon maintaining its status as GOD'S CHOSEN PEOPLE. The TALMUD, therefore, makes it a crime for JEWS to marry non-JEWS. But not always. Male JEWS, seeking to invigorate sickly tribal genes may receive rabbinical dispensation to mate with trophy Gentile women. The mongrel offspring (bastards) of those mixed marriages are considered non-JEWS; however, sons of those marriages can redeem the JEW lineage by mar- rying JEWESSES, whose issue is always considered JEW- ISH. Selah, the TRIBE captures healthy Gentile genes! In a patriarchal society, as the JEWS’, the above described dispen- sation indicates a biological necessity. It was common prac- tice for wealthy JEWS, following the wars, to search the ruins of Europe for starving Aryan widows and orphans to take back to the States.
Steven Spielberg, JEW, pusillanimous Hollywood direc- tor, paid $22-million to Kate Capshaw, enterprising White hustler, before she would commit to the marriage bed (Vanity Fair, Oct. 1997). She then dutifully bore him two future candiates for America's booming nose-job industry. Such is the life of a bird in a gilded cage. It is not clear what remu-
16

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
neration Vice President Al Gore received, quid pro quo, for arranging the marriage of his blonde daughter to the scion of the wealthy Schiff tribe (Kuhn Loeb & Co., JEWS), a bank- ing cabal notorious for financing the Bolshevik Revolution in which millions of unarmed Moslems, and Christians were murdered in the same manner that Texas ranchers round-up and slaughter jack-rabbits.
In 1933 Germans in democratic elections opted for a German State exclusively for Germans (Aryans) — offering to help Zionists colonize JEWS in Palestine. WORLD JEWRY went berserk unilaterally declaring war (1933) on Germany. It is inconceivable to JEWS that any race but GOD'S CHOSEN should have its own State. ILLUMI- NATI ordered ALLIED forces to incinerate Germans in their cities, farms, and hamlets: advising the World that Nation- States will not be tolerated — except in Israel, and that WORLD JEWRY may live within whatever foreign nation it wishes.
The phrase E pluribus unum, which appears on U.S. coins, referred to White immigrants who, upon reaching the United States, abandoned their ethnicity and assimilated into one White gene-pool (Nation): the same Aryan Nation that populated the great States of Europe. Here, instead of calling themselves English, French, Scots, Germans, Poles, et al., they called themselves Americans. Therefore, until WWII the entire world thought of Americans as White. No longer. We are known today as the “ugly American.” This is no longer our country. Shamefully, White America capitu-
17

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
lated to the JEWS without firing a shot — whilst the Ameri- can Indian fought for his land almost to the last man, leaving a legacy of bravery.
The world homo sapiens population today is 6-Billion, of which 800-Million (13%) are White. Democratizing the world will provide the same result as pouring a container of milk down a New York City sewer. The White population simply will miscegenate into the muck and disappear — for- ever — as befitting a species lacking the Will to survive.
II
From the earliest days of their history JEWS lived among alien nations. Strabo, the great geographer (c. 100 B.C.), wrote that HEBREWS clandestinely controlled almost every prosperous People on earth. That seems a fair statement. Josephus, HEBREW historian of about the same period, boasted there is no nation HEBREWS have not pen- etrated. 400-years after Cheops' first pyramid a trickle of HEBREW immigrants crossed the Suez isthmus into pros- perous Egypt during the reign of Pepi II (2738-2644 B.C.). The trickle became a stream. Bribery, political and moral corruption burgeoned. The Egyptian dynasty verged on col- lapse. Nefer-rohu writes: “Every mouth is full of 'Love me!' and everything good has disappeared.” “The robber is now the possessor of riches... I show thee the owner in need and the outsider satisfied...” HEBREWS were not held in bond- age by the Pharaoh. It was the other way around. Eventually the camel was kicked out of the tent and Egypt began a cul- tural and economic renaissance.
18

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The twelve HEBREW tribes to whom Yahweh prom- ised the World were united for less than 100-years ("Golden Years") under kings Saul, David and the bastard Solomon. Torn by internecine strife and heavily taxed to support the “wise” king's excesses the tribes unwisely split into two parts (922 B.C.): Israel with 10 tribes, to the north; and Judah (containing Jerusalem) with 2 tribes, to the south. Assyrians (Syria, Semites) killed or assimilated the northern tribes — which disappeared forever from history. Then Judah was defeated in battle by Babylonians (Iraqis, Semites). Surviving Judeans were held in Babylonian captivity. Later those held in positions of trust (530 B.C.) betrayed Babylon to the Per- sians (Iran, Aryans) even as JUDEANS later betrayed the Greek-Roman cities of Asia Minor to the Patricians, as JEWS in the 20th Century betrayed America's military secrets to the Soviet Union, Israel and China. (The O.T. Book of Esther reveals the JEWS' concept of a heroine). Persia allowed the JUDEANS to return to Jerusalem and rebuild their temple. In 330 B.C. Alexander the Great (Mace- donians, Greeks, Aryans) conquered Persia. Eventually Hel- lenism was replaced (27 B.C.) by the great Roman (Aryan) hegemony.
Under Hellenism and later Rome the objective was to bring together as a functioning entity the heterogeneous populations of Asia and the mid-East. Improvements were made in government and civic affairs; roads and aqueducts were constructed, trade routes and businesses established (more HEBREWS lived in Alexandria than in Jerusalem).
19

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
The concept of Western Reason was introduced into educa- tion, i.e., the objective search for FACTS as opposed to sub- jective (HEBRAIC) reasoning. All of the conquered areas profited. However, GOD'S CHOSEN had their own agenda. Hebrews split into two substantive camps: the High Priests and business community which cooperated with the satrap governments for political favor and monetary profits; and the traditional looney religious zealots seeking martyr- dom, and death to Gentiles. To Greece-Rome, Judeans appeared of little importance — until a treasonous 5th-col- umn spread throughout the region. The air filled with rumors, slander, superstitions and dire omens. Usury, brib- ery, extortion soared. Morale and business suffered. Govern- ment officials and army officers were assassinated. Pushed beyond patience as many nations have been, first Greece, then Rome struck back hard. And they have been demonized for their actions ever since. Antiochus IV Epiphanes, the rul- ing Ptolemy, attempted to gain Hebrew cooperation through edicts supporting the Torah, the High Priest, and the busi- ness community. However, his patience ran out when he learned of another armed Israeli rebellion (169 B.C.). “Rag- ing like a wild beast,” Antiochus marched against Jerusalem where — after his Hebrew supporters treacherously opened the city gates — the Greeks killed 80,000 ISRAELIS in three days, and sold at least that many into slavery.
Rome, too, having experienced 100-years of HEBREW lies and treason (7-Million Hebrews lived within the Roman Empire), and smarting under another rebellion in Palestine,
20

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ordered the Temple in Jerusalem destroyed (70 A.D.). In addition, according to Tacitus, 600,000 of the 2.5-Million ISRAELIS living in Palestine were slain in combat (Josephus, the Elie Wiesel of his day, claimed 1,197,000 men, women, and children were murdered).
In 115 A.D., HEBREWS and Gentiles killed one another in Egypt, Mesopotamia, Cyprus and Cyrene. During the Diaspora (i.e., Hebrews banished from Canaan) “God's Chosen” scattered throughout the Mediterranean littoral. Tragically for the West, many of them joined the Hebrew enclave in Rome where as early as 63 B.C. it is recorded Hebrews caused economic problems by exporting gold from Italy. Their corrupt influence was powerful enough to bribe Roman judges and influence foreign policy. The pitiful tale of ISRAELIS forced to live in the Diaspora is another HOAX. Only a small HEBREW population ever lived in Palestine; genetically they are compelled to live among host nations. The ISRAELI administrative capital was not Jerusa- lem but Babylon. There, a NASI (Chief) administered the far-flung Hebrew nation. Joseph Ben Tobiah, JEW (c. 240 B.C.) is described as “the prototype of the INTERNA- TIONAL FINANCIER for whom neither frontiers nor restrictive ethical considerations exist... the first great JEW banker.” (Peter Green, Alexander to Actium).
From the Pharaohs to Hammarubi to modern times JEWS have been the object of dread and disgust:
(CICERO) JEWS belong to a dark and repulsive force. (TACITUS) They are always ready to show compassion to
21

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
one another while reserving bitter enmity toward all others. (CONSTANTINE) The JEWS are a nefarious and perverse sect. (THE KORAN) Satan has prevailed upon them. JEWS are the party of Satan. (GOETHE) This crafty race has one great principle: as long as order prevails there is nothing to be gained. (VOLTAIRE) All JEWS are born with a raging fanat- icism in their hearts, just as Bretons and Germans are born with blond hair. I wouldn't be surprised if these JEWS would not some day become deadly to the human race. (WASHINGTON) The JEWS work more effectively against us than the enemy's armies. (JEFFERSON) Dispersed as JEWS they still form one nation, foreign to the land they live in. (FRANKLIN) I fully agree with General Washington that we must protect this young nation from an insidious influence and penetration. That menace, gentlemen, is the JEWS. (NAPOLEON) The JEWS are the master robbers of the modern age; they are the carrion birds of humanity. (LISZT) The presence of the JEWS in the midst of the Euro- pean nations is a cause of many evils and a serious danger. (HEGEL) The state is incompatible with the JEWISH prin- ciple. (LORD HARRINGTON) JEWS have ever been the greatest enemies of freedom. (HUME) The JEWS have a peculiar character and are known for their fraud. (U. S. GRANT) The JEWS, as a class, violating every regulation established by the Treasury are hereby expelled from that department. (SOMBART) Wars are JEWS' harvests. (DOS- TOYEVSKY) JEWS are draining the soil of Russia. (JUNG) The JEW has never created a cultural form of his own and as far as we can see never will. (R. L. STEVENSON) JEWS
22

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
lead on the farmer into irretrievable indebtedness and keep him ever after as their bond-slave. (R. WAGNER) On one thing I am very clear: that is the deflection and falsification of our cultural tendencies can be attributed to JEWISH influence. (LINDBERGH) We are disturbed about the effect of the JEWISH influence in our press, radio, and motion pictures. (NESTA WEBSTER) England is no longer con- trolled by Britons. We are under an invisible JEWISH dicta- torship. (KEROUAC) The real enemy is the Communist, the JEW. (J. R. LOWELL) Where would the JEW be among a society of primitive men without pockets? (MALCOM X) You can't even say JEW without him accusing you of anti- Semitism. (MENCKEN) It seems to me, save for a few bright spots, the TALMUD is quite indistinguishable from rubbish. (G. B. SHAW) This is the real enemy... the oriental parasite; in a word the JEW. (SOMBART) Turn to the pages of the TALMUD... JEWS were taught early on to look for their chief happiness in money. (MARK TWAIN) I read in the Encyclopaedia Britannica that the JEWISH population in the U.S. was 250,000; I wrote the editor that I personally was acquainted with more JEWS than that. I am of the opin- ion that we have an immense JEWISH population in the United States. (THOMAS WOLFE) JEWS seduce pure young Christian boys (and girls) because they love them and want to destroy them.2
2. quotations are from the book ANTIZION, compiled by William Grimstad, Noontide Press.
 23

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Behind all Western wars and revolutions lurks the Inter- national JEW, forever wailing anti-Semitism, while sucking Gentile blood.
We are not hyphenated JEWS: we are JEWS with no qual- ifications or reservations... Your spirit is alien to us... your national ambitions and aspirations are alien to us. We are a for- eign people in your midst, and we emphasize we wish to stay that way... we recognize a national unity of Diaspora JEWS no matter in which land we reside. Therefore no boundaries can restrain us from pursuing our own JEWISH policies...
DR. JAKOB KLATZKIN, JEW, “Krisis und Entsheidung.”
In the Modern Era JEWRY was expelled, punished or exposed by many Aryan States including the following:
1215 CATHOLIC 4th LATERAN COUNCIL — restricted JEWRY for slave trade, prostitution, and pimpery.
1253 FRANCE — restrictions for violating Civil Law.
1255 ENGLAND — 18 hanged for ritual murder.
1275 ENGLAND — Parliamentary proscription of JEW usury.
1290 ENGLAND — expelled from England for trea- son, etc.
1300 RUSSIA — ongoing warfare between Aryan Rus and Khazars culminating in Bolshevik Revolution and ILLUMINATI take-over of Russia/Eastern Europe, and America.
1348 SAXONY — expels JEWS to Poland, Turkey; treason.
24

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
1360 HUNGARY — expels JEWS for violations of Civil Law.
1370 BELGIUM — expels JEWS for usury, treason.
1380 SLOVAKIA — expels JEWS for usury, treason, pimping.
1420 AUSTRIA — expels JEWS for violation of Civil Law.
1444 NETHERLANDS — expels JEWS for usury, treason, pimping.
1492
1495 Civil Law.
1498 treason.
1540 pimpery.
    1551
    1776
    1913
SPAIN — expels JEWS for blasphemy, treason. LITHUANIA — expels JEWS for violation of
PORTUGAL — expels JEWS for blasphemy, ITALY — expels JEWS for blasphemy, murder,
BAVARIA — expels JEWS for treason. FRANCE/BAVARIA — ILLUMINATI banned. RUSSIA — expels Bolsheviks for treason, murder.
1935
TRIA, CROATIA, VICHY FRANCE, expel JEWS for trea- sonous activities, usury, murder.
1953 U.S.A. — Congress identifies and convicts JEW spies.
1966 U.S.A. — Senator McCarthy proven correct re JEW spies.
GERMANY, ROMANIA, HUNGARY, AUS-
25

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
1990 CANADA — Zundel Trials prove “HOLO- CAUST” a HOAX.
1999 U.S.A — JEW espionage.
The JEW has already emancipated himself in the JEWISH way: The JEW who is for example merely tolerated in Vienna determines by his money power the fate of the entire German Empire. The JEW who is without rights in the smallest German state decides the fate of Europe.
KARL MARX, “A World Without Jews,” 1840
III
In Nature all organisms feed on other organisms. In that sense Mankind is parasitical because it feeds on other living things. However, the only human parasite that embeds itself in the sinews of other humans is the JEW. Their genius lies in cunning; in their chameleon-like ability to deceive; and, as Cicero points out, their malevolence in appealing to the baseness that lies deep in the souls of all men. Publicly the JEWS evoke PITY. Presenting themselves as JUDEANS wandering forever in Diaspora: tragic, defenseless victims, persecuted by EVERYONE in a bigoted, anti-Semitic world! Beneath this chimerism international JEWRY is a virulent, organized, powerful, enormously wealthy TETRAD comb- ing NATION/LAW/RELIGION/CULTURE: which alone commands allegiance; traverses all national boundaries; and holds in utter contempt the Gentile nations that their geno- cidal GOD has commanded them to destroy.
The indignation of the Lord is upon all nations and his fury upon all armies. He will utterly destroy them... their slain
26

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
shall also be cast out and their stink shall come from their car- casses... for it is the year of the Lord's vengeance and the year of recompense for the controversy of Zion.
THE HOLY BIBLE: Isaiah 34:2.
Edward Gibbon, in his The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, describes JEWS as “a race of fanatics... with an irreconcilable hatred of Mankind.” Arnold Toynbee calls JUDAISM a “Fossil religion.” Winston Churchill denounces JEWS as “A gang of personalities from the underworld CONSPIRING to overthrow Western Civilization.” Rabbi Stephen Wise, leader of “American” JEWRY during WWII, and instrumental in creating the “HOLOCAUST” (HOAX) said: “I am not an American citizen of JEWISH faith. I am a JEW. I have been a JEW for a thousand years. Hitler was right — we are a People.” Yes, Hitler was right.
In this Foreword we have reviewed briefly the intentions of our Founding Fathers to create a bastion of Western Cul- ture in America for their White progeny. Current U. S. Cen- sus Bureau statistics reveal that White Americans are being eradicated. We also explored a brief history of the HEBREWS/JUDEANS/ISRAELIS because, as Spengler so convincingly demonstrates — and as America can now attest — history unfailingly repeats itself. The ancient JEW cancer is now embedded in America's sinews.
The Rules of Navigation tell us that to set a new course we first must know where we are; to know where we are we must know where we have been. Therefore, we intend to briefly examine the history of the CONSPIRACY; followed
27

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
by a description of the CONSPIRACY in action: LIBERAL- ISM/MARXISM/JEWRY; and finally we will offer a plan to remove the cancer from our Cultural Organism. If it is not removed we die.
REMEMBER: White genes cannot be created, they can only be transmitted. We Aryans can always build another State upon the ruins of the old; but once the White gene- pool is polluted YOU CAN KISS THE BLONDES, RED- HEADS AND FAIR SKINNED BRUNETTES GOOD- BYE FOREVER!
28

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Chapter 1
THE CONSPIRACY
For thou art a holy people unto the lord thy God and the lord hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth.
HOLY BIBLE: Deuteronomy 14:2.
The indignation of the Lord is upon all nations, and his fury upon all armies. He will utterly destroy them... their slain shall also be cast out and their stink shall come from their car- casses... for it is the year of the Lord's vengeance and the year of recompense for the controversy of Zion.
HOLY BIBLE: Isaiah 34:2.
Extermination of Christians necessary. TALMUD: Zohar II 43a.
It is more wicked to question the words of the rabbis than Torah.
TALMUD: Michna Sanhedrin 11:3.
The administrators, whom we shall choose from among the public with strict regard for their servile obedience, will not be persons trained in the art of government, and therefore will easily become pawns in our game, in the hands of men of learn- ing and genius who will be their advisors: specialists bred and reared from early childhood to rule the affairs of the whole world.
PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION, Protocol 2:2.
All vows, oaths, promises, engagements, and swearings which I make in the future shall be null from this Day of Atonement until the next.
TALMUD: Kol Nidre Oath.
29

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
THE TORAH
WHEN HISTORIANS publicly commit to a CON- SPIRACY THEORY the media goes berserk, labeling them Nazis, bigots, paranoids, fools. Why such furious denials? Since the beginning of recorded history men have conspired to rule the world, or what they thought to be the world. Why should it be any different today? It isn’t. There is a con- spiracy, working at this moment, to destroy Western Civili- zation and the Aryan Nation that created it. This is not a new conspiracy. It began over 3000-years ago as spoken tribal legends, which eventually were collected in the Torah (c. 900 B.C.), a tapestry of myths and tales plagiarized, largely, from Egypt, Mesopotamia, Babylon, and Greece. The Mosaic Law, the Garden of Eden, the Flood, the story of David, all came from non-Hebraic sources. The idea of monotheism was borrowed (c. 1400 B.C) from Pharaoh Iknaton. Into this rich tapestry the Hebrews wove threads of their own history as they believed it to be, or desired it to be — the modus oper- andi of Hollywood scriptwriters today. The fictitious protag- onist of these self-serving tales is Yahweh (Adonai, Jehovah, God): a jealous, vengeful, wrathful, genocidal, anthropomor- phic tribal god, created in the image and likeness of the Hebrews who created him. Naturally, this BIG HEBREW in the sky LOVES the HEBREWS. All other nations are con- sidered cattle to be used, milked and exterminated.
For thou art a holy people unto the lord thy God and the lord hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself,
30

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
above all the nations that are upon the earth. THE HOLY BIBLE, Deuteronomy 14:2.
Ye shall be a treasure unto me above all people: for the earth is mine.
THE HOLY BIBLE, Exodus 19:5.
Remember, these delusions of grandeur were written by HEBREWS about themselves. Megalomaniacs of such magni- tude generally are manic-depressives confined to insane asylums.
The treasure of treasures is Abraham whom Yahweh “loves above all others.” We are told that Abram (Abraham) and his wife Sari (Sarah), who also is his half-sister, jour- neyed to prosperous Egypt looking for loot. There, Abraham arranges an assignation between his sister and the Pharaoh. Yahweh, omnipresent, catches them en flagrante delicto. The Pharaoh, unaware he has committed adultery, presents Abe and Sari with cattle, servants, silver and gold “and Abraham was very rich.” But, JEHOVAH is a jealous god and WRATHFUL (Gen.12); NOT at the pimp Abraham whom he loves above all others; NOT at the hustler Sari. He's furi- ous with the duped gentile, Pharaoh, and visits a plague upon Egypt (Spielbergism). Many years later (Gen. 20) in a repeat scenario Sarah, then 92-years old, hustles Pharaoh Ambimilech. God said to Ambimilech: “behold thou art but a dead man... for she is a man's wife!” Real history records JEWS were expelled from Egypt for treason and for trans- mitting the plague — as JEWS were carriers of typhus dur- ing World War II (See Chapter 6, “HOLOCAUST”).
31

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
In another example of GOD's hatred for Gentiles we learn that Abraham, patriarch of Israel, had his eyes focused on Canaan, a “land of milk and honey” belonging to a pasto- ral Semitic tribe — the Philistines (Palestinians). As luck would have it Yahweh fashions a sweetheart arrangement with his pimp pal Abraham:
And I will give unto thee and thy seed after thee the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an ever- lasting possession; and I will be their God.
GENESIS 17:8.
JEHOVAH, like Alley Oop, says whatever the script- writers print in the blurbs. Those who find it compelling to believe Yahweh created a flat earth, circa 5000 B.C., spoke from a burning bush, bared his buttocks, parted the Red Sea, and loves JEWS above all other nations, share a childish cre- dulity with those who believe millions of JEWS died in Ger- man gas-chambers. It also confirms JEWISH conviction that Gentiles are stupid sheep. It makes one want to puke.
The TORAH commands Gentiles to worship JEHO- VAH or suffer the torments of Hell. On the other hand JEHOVAH assures JEWS they may rob, cheat, rape, and slay Gentiles with impunity. He promises that JEWS alone shall inherit the Earth.
32

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
THE TALMUD
THE HOLY BIBLE informs us that Moses, a Hebrew (or was he Egyptian?), climbed Mt. Sinai (c. 1300 B.C.) to confer with Yahweh, who gave him THE LAW (The Ten Commandments) which Moses wrote down on two stone tablets (there was no Hebraic alphabet in those days so the writing may have been cuneiform, hieroglyphic, Chinese, or whatever). Traditionally, Moses also wrote the TORAH (Pentateuch). Centuries later Pharisees claimed that God orally interpreted THE LAW given Moses. The Pharisees claimed that Yahweh’s oral interpretation was identical with their oral interpretation. Thus, the PHARISEES' ORAL LAW and THE TORAH are recognized as THE HOLY WORD. The Pharisees' ORAL LAW, called Pharisaism, which Jesus despised as the “Synagogue of Satan,” was even- tually written down and became the TALMUD (500 A.D.).
The TALMUD consists of 63 books of legal, ethical, and historical writings of the ancient rabbis (22 B.C. — 500 A.D.). It was edited 5-centuries after the birth of Jesus. It is a compen- dium of law and lore: the legal code which forms the basis of JEWISH religious Law and the book used in the training of rabbis; it is the very foundation of JEWISH life. It is taught to JEWISH children as soon as they are able to read.
Rabbi Morris N. Kertzer, President, Jewish Chaplain's Associa- tion, Armed Forces, U.S.A.; spokesman for the American Jew- ish Committee (the “Vatican of Judaism”).
33

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
There are two TALMUDS: the Palestinian, and the Babylonian. It is the Babylonian TALMUD (Socino Ed. 1935), used by most JEWS that we, largely, will refer to here. It is a huge tome; much of which is dull, the syntax cumber- some; herein the genetic schizophrenia of JEWS is manifest: it is boastful, despondent, vindictive, vulgar, dishonest, hate- filled. The TALMUD is concerned with almost every con- ceivable aspect of JEWISH existence, little is left to chance, from how to use seeds and herbs, to diet, and sexual rela- tions; when to lie; whom to kill; what goat to sacrifice; Cab- alism, numerology, necromancy, thaumaturgy, and obsessions with Hollywood-style perversions, body func- tions, etc. Nevertheless, throughout, the rabbis wove the thread of JEWISH philosophy, JEWISH Law, and JEWISH “history.” Here is the grist underlying the JEWS' goal to rule the world, garner its wealth, and enslave the Gentiles. It is this Luciferian credo, that is changing the United States into an ILLUMINATI controlled, non-White nation, soon to become part of One Mongrel World.
Gentiles prying into JEW LAWS will receive death. TALMUD: Sanhedrin 59a.
Do not save Christians in danger of death. TALMUD: Hilkoth Akum X, 1.
Kill the best Gentiles! TALMUD: Sanhedrin 59.
A woman who has intercourse with a beast is eligible to marry a priest.
TALMUD: Yebamoth 59b.
34

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
A maiden three years and a day may be acquired in mar- riage by coition.
TALMUD: Sanhedrin 55b.
Pederasty with a child below nine years of age is not deemed pederasty.
TALMUD: Sanhedrin 54b-55a.
Jesus was illegitimately conceived during menstruation. TALMUD: Kallah 1b (18b).
When a grown up man has intercourse with a little girl, less than 3-years old, it is as nothing.
TALMUD: Kethuboth 11a-11b.
Sexual intercourse is permitted with a dead relative. TALMUD: Ya Bhamoth.
Let us all remember that we are a distinct nationality of which every Jew — what ever his country, his station, his shade of belief — is necessarily a member.
LOUIS DEMBITZ BRANDEIS, JEW, U.S. Supreme Court.
Michael Redkinson, JEW, and Rabbi Isaac Wise, “two of the world's greatest authorities on the TALMUD,” collab- orating on the celebrated tome, History of the Talmud, have this to say:
The source from which Jesus of Nazareth drew the teach- ings... that enabled him to revolutionize the world... is the TAL- MUD. It is the written form of that which, in the time of Jesus, was called the traditions of The Elders of Zion, to which he makes frequent allusions.
Redkinson and Wise, of course, are LIARS. The TAL- MUD resounds with hatred for Jesus:
35

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Jesus was conceived while Mary was menstruating. TALMUD: Kallah 1b.
Jesus is the bastard son of Pandira, Roman soldier. TALMUD: Sanhedrin 67a.
Jesus is in Hell, punished by being boiled in hot semen... all Christians are boiled in shit!
TALMUD: Libre David 37.
And the New Testament clearly shows Jesus’ disdain for the Pharisees and their oral (TALMUDIC) teaching:
I know the blasphemy of them who say they are the Chil- dren of God, but are of the Synagogue of Satan! For ye are of your father the Devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth for there was no truth in him... When he speaketh a lie he spea- keth of his own for he is a LIAR and the father of it.
JESUS, JOHN 8:1
Under the Pharisees’ direction the Temple had become the Federal Reserve System of its day. Christ drove the usu- rers from the Temple with a snake whip, indirectly attacking the Pharisees’ purse. That sealed his fate! The Anti-Defama- tion League of his day acted quickly. Using standard proce- dures they defamed Jesus (“L'Infamie”) to get the mob on their side — as centuries later they would defame Marie Antoinette, the Romanovs, Hitler, Gen. MacArthur, McCar- thy, et al). Then, Jesus was framed by the Sanhedrin, who had Him arrested, tried, sentenced, and crucified. (Pope John Paul, 1995 A.D., denied the HOLY WORD, pro- nouncing that JEWS had no part in the death of Jesus Christ!).
36

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
His blood be on us (JEWS) and upon our children! MATTHEW: 27:24-25.
I am innocent of the blood of this just man! THE SYNOPTICS: Pontius Pilate.
Jesus fornicates with his jackass. TALMUD: Sanhedrin.
Rodkinson and Wise with goose-grease chutzpah say:
The TALMUD has survived in its entirety, not a single let- ter of the TALMUD is missing... and now it is flourishing to such a degree as cannot be found in its past history. It domi- nates the minds of a whole people, who venerate its contents as Divine Truth.
One of those “Divine Truths” from the TALMUD is the holy KOL NIDRE OATH (All Vows Prayer). It is recited thrice by the synagogue congregation as prologue to YOM KIPPUR rites, (The Day of Atonement) “The Highest of Holy Days.” It has also been set to music by Felix Mendles- sohn, JEW (Marrano). Most Christians, including the clergy, believe the KOL NIDRE OATH is a profound vow to God. In FACT the TALMUD demands that every JEW must break in advance all oaths and sworn declarations a JEW might make to a Gentile during the ensuing year:
“...my promises shall not bind... my vows shall not be reck- oned vows... nor my oath oaths... every vow which I make in the future shall be NULL from this Day of Atonement until the
37

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
next.”
TALMUD: Kol Nidre Oath.
Joseph G. Burg, JEW, author of “Zionist Nazi Censor- ship”; “Guilt and Fate,” and several other important books on WWII, testified for the defense at the on-going Canada v. Ernst Zundel, “Holocaust” Trials, in Toronto, Ontario, Can- ada (blacked-out in the U. S. A.). Burg stated that JEW “Holocaust” survivors invented the gas-chamber stories. But, as their testimony was sworn before a Gentile court they could LIE with impunity.
If those Jews had sworn before a rabbi wearing a skull cap then these false statements, these sick statements, would go down by 99.5%, because the superficial oath was not morally binding on JEWS.
JOSEPH G. BURG, JEW, Zundel Hate Crimes Trials, 1988.
JEWS may lie and perjure to condemn Christians. TALMUD: Babha Kama 113b.
The TALMUD is the very foundation of JEWISH life. It is taught to JEWISH children as soon as they are old enough to read.
RABBI MORRIS KERTZER, American JEWISH Committee.
The TORAH, then, was created to inspire and control a “stiff necked,” defeated people; while the TALMUD was a pragmatic interpretation of that MYTH. High-placed Phari- sees and priests, profoundly aware of the Jehovah HOAX, also understood that TORAH/TALMUDISM not only sup-
38

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ported their life-styles, but was the glue that held together the Hebrew nation.
Beautiful continents rich in natural resources were wait- ing to be discovered and civilized. But JEWS produced no explorers or conquerors. They might have assimilated within the Semitic nations. Instead, compelled by the genotype of their species, and convinced of their “CHOSEN” status, JEWS implanted themselves like leeches within the Gentile nations they secretly vowed to dispossess and destroy.
Wherever TALMUDISM appeared “anti-Semitism” fol- lowed as night follows day. JEW communities — ghettos, with synagogues and rabbis forming the operative nuclei — designed to keep goyim out, invariably became enclosures to keep JEWS in. Gentiles could not tolerate this alien, corrupt, manic-depressive nation in their midst.
Psychologists report that children conditioned to develop exaggerated or unfounded levels of self-esteem — and unnatural feelings of self-love — who are taught to think of themselves unrealistically as better than everyone else invariably suffer deep depression when their achievements fail their expectations. When they are criticized by others, or don't get their way they resort to tantrums and violence. They consistently blame others for their inadequacy. They hate their superiors upon whom they seek vengeance.
JEWS especially envy and hate the Aryan Nation whose remarkable achievements and physical beauty JEWS find humiliating — bitter, bitter vetch to swallow day after day, year after year, generation after generation — especially for
39

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
those who so fervently believe themselves God's Chosen Peo- ple. The TORAH/TALMUD CONSPIRACY required a new approach, without sacrificing tradition, to deal with contemporary political problems. It should come as no sur- prise then, to discover that certain Elders of Zion — after centuries of frustrations and humiliations — took matters into their own hands and formulated a plan to implement and expedite JEHOVAH'S unfulfilled promises. THE PRO- TOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION.
We shall have World Government whether or not we like it. The question is only whether World Government will be achieved by consent or by conquest.
JAMES WARBURG, JEW, Banker, 1953, U. S. Congressional Hearing.
The truth is that for the last 147-years the fire of revolution has smoldered steadily beneath the ancient structure of civiliza- tion.. it is not local, but universal... its causes must be sought in a deep-laid conspiracy... which constitutes the greatest menace that has ever confronted the human race... the conception of the Jews as the Chosen People ...forms a concerted attempt to achieve world-domination.
NESTA H. WEBSTER, World Revolution, Briton Press 1971.
This movement among the Jews is not new. From the days of Sparticus-Weishaupt to those of Karl Marx and down to Trotsky (Russia), Bela Kuhn (Hungary), Rosa Luxembourg (Germany), and Emma Goldman (United States), this world- wide conspiracy for the overthrow of civilization and the recon- struction of society on the basis of arrested development, envi- ous malevolence, and impossible equality has been steadily growing. It played, as Mrs. Nesta Webster, historian, has so ably shown, a definitely recognizable part in the tragedy of the French Revolution, and the mainspring of every subversive
40

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
movement during the Nineteenth Century ...the majority of the leading figures are Jews. Moreover, the principal inspiration and driving power comes from Jewish leaders.
WINSTON CHURCHILL, Illustrated Sunday Herald (1920).
Amshel Mayer Rothschild, JEW, (1743-1810) patriarch of the Frankfort, Germany, banking family, was intrigued by ancient scrolls bearing Hebrew Protocols that he had acquired for his library. He commissioned Adam Weishaupt, an apostate Jesuit priest, to up-date them. In the fateful year, 1776 A.D., Weishaupt presented the Einigen Original- Scripten (Protocols) to Rothschild accompanied by an orga- nizational paradigm, designed to implement the revised Pro- tocols, which he named “THE ILLUMINATI” after Lucifer (Satan), “The Bearer of Light.” Its objective: ONE WORLD ILLUMINATI GOVERNMENT.
The Weishaupt/Rothschild documents were revealed to the world (1784) “by an act of God” when a Rothschild cou- rier and his horse were struck dead by lightning in Ratisbon enroute to Paris. Bavarian authorities discovered a copy of the Einigen Original-Scripten in the saddlebags. The ILLU- MINATI was promptly outlawed, and the Grand Orient Lodges, wherein the conspirators met, were permanently closed. The ILLUMINATI, then, quickly infiltrated Freema- sonry Lodges throughout Europe, from which the French (JEW) Revolution was fomented and directed.
Many years later the Protocols, again revised, reappeared in St. Petersburg, Russia, around the time of the Bolshevik, JEW, revolution there. Victor E. Marsden, correspondent for
41

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
the London Morning Post (during an era when integrity of the press was considered sacrosanct) acquired a Russian edi- tion (Cionski Protocoli) of Weishaupt's work, in a cloak and dagger caper, from Professor Sergyei Nilus, an Orthodox Catholic priest. Marsden translated it into English, publish- ing it under the title: The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion. For his temerity Marsden was murdered. Nilus' origi- nal copy of the Protocols, bearing the date August 10, 1906, is now in the British Museum, London.
In the U. S. A., Henry Ford, Sr., founder of the Ford Motor Company, ordered millions of copies of the Protocols printed, in several languages, and distributed throughout the world. World JEWRY vehemently protested the Protocols were “forgeries” (sic). Ford replied, (New York World, 2-17- 21), “The only statement I care to make about the Protocols is that... they have fitted the world situation up to this time. They fit it now.” Senator Jacob Javits, JEW, chaired a U.S. Senate Investigating Committee to report on the Protocols. The U. S. Senate, who does what it is told, confirmed the Protocols were “forged” (sic). Forgeries of what? No debate was conducted on the correlation between the Protocols and what has occurred on the World stage!
300-men, all acquainted with each other, control the eco- nomic destiny of the continent.
WALTER RATHENAU, JEW, powerful German financier .
The World is ruled by very different personages that those who are not behind the scenes would imagine.
BENJAMIN DISRAELI, JEW, Prime Minister, Great Britain.
42

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
You have not begun to appreciate the real depth of our guilt. We are intruders. We are disturbers. We are subverters. We have taken your natural world, your ideals, your destiny, and played havoc with them.
MARCUS ELI RAVAGE, JEW, Century Magazine (January 1928).
The meaning of the history of our last century is that today 300 Jewish financiers, all masters of Lodges, rule the world. JEAN IZOULET, Jewish Alliance Israelite Universelle (1931).
THE PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION, containing 24 Protocols, are divided into Arti- cles. Several PROTOCOLS may have been deleted by Pro- fessor Nilus because he deemed them harmful to the Church. Herein, because of limited space, the PROTO- COLS will be abridged. (Edward Gibbon reminds us — The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Chapters XV, XXVIII, XLVII, XLIX — that the Jewish conspiracy was behind the fall of ALL of civilized antiquity).
THE PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION
Protocol 1: Political freedom is an idea, not a fact. One must know how to apply this idea as bait whenever it appears necessary to attract the masses of the people to one's party for the purpose of crushing whoever is in authority. This task is made easier if the opponent himself has been infected with the idea of freedom, so-called liberalism, and for the sake of an idea is willing to yield some of his power. It is precisely here that the triumph of our theory appears; the slackened
43

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
reins of government are immediately, by the Law of Life, caught up and gathered together by a new hand; because the blind might of the nation cannot for a single day exist with- out guidance, and the new authority merely fits into the place of the old authority weakened by liberalism.
Our right lies in force. The word “right” is an abstract thought proved by nothing. The word means no more than: Give me what I want in order that I may have proof that I am stronger than you.
Our power in the present tottering condition of all forms of power will be more invincible than any other because it will remain invisible until the moment when it has gained such strength that no cunning can undermine it.
Behold the alcoholized animals bemused with drink, the right to an immoderate use of which comes with freedom. It is not for us and ours to walk that road. Goyim are bemused with alcohol, and from early immorality into which it has been induced by our special agents.
Protocol 2: The administrators, whom we shall choose from among the public with strict regard for their servility, will not be persons trained in the art of government, and will therefore become pawns in our game: in the hands of men of learning and genius, specialists bred and reared from early childhood to rule the affairs of the whole world.
In the hands of the States there is a great force that cre- ates the movement of thought in the people. That is the Press! It is in the Press that the triumph of freedom of speech
44

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
finds its incarnation. But the goyim have not known how to make use of this force and it has fallen into our hands.
We shall instigate economic and military wars between the Goyim states. When wars are over both sides are devas- tated and at the mercy of our international finance. This is the “Jewish Harvest.” First, we manufacture the huge war machines. Second we destroy the flower of White manhood thereby weakening the racial stamina of the Goyim. Third, the White nations are prostrate under huge debts and we profit interest upon interest.
Protocol 3: And thus the people condemn the upright and acquit the guilty, persuaded ever more it can do whatever it wishes. Thanks to this the people are destroying every kind of stability and creating disorders at every step. By encourag- ing abuses of power by rulers, and by agitating and stirring up the mob the press “will put the final touch in preparing all institutions for their overthrow and everything will fly skyward under the blows of the maddening crowd.”
We appear on the scene as alleged saviors of the worker from oppression then propose to him to enter the ranks of our fighting forces — Socialists, Communists, Anarchists — to whom we always support in accordance with an alleged brotherly rule.
Protocol 4: In order to give the goyim no time to think their minds must be diverted toward industry and trade. Thus all the nations will be swallowed up in the hot pursuit of gain. Gentile Masonry blindly serves as a screen for us and our objects, but the plan of action of our force, even its abid-
45

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
ing hiding place, remains for the whole people a mystery, and they will not take note of their common foe.
Protocol 5: In order to put public opinion into our hands we must bring it into a state of bewilderment by giving expression to all sides to many contradictory opinions, and for such a length of time as will suffice to make the goyim lose their heads in the labyrinth, and come to see that the best thing is to have no opinion in matters political, which it is not given to the public to understand because they are understood only by him who guides the public. This is the first secret.
By all these means we shall so wear down the goyim that they shall be compelled to offer us international power of a nature that by its position will enable us without violence gradually to absorb all the State forces of the world and to form a Super- Government.
Protocol 6: The establishment of huge financial monop- olies: finance, publishing, oil, sugar, steel, medicine, railways, liquor, food, clothing — containing reservoirs of colossal wealth upon which Goyim must depend in order to exist.
The Goyim must be deprived of their farms and ranches which will be achieved by loading them with debts which must be ruthlessly exploited.
Protocol 7: Our agents are in the governments of all countries of the world advising their leaders. Thus we have an international network while the Goyim has none. Through economic treaties and loan obligations, and the hostilities and intrigues they create, we will so entangle the
46

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
threads of world governments that they will be unable to act without our approval. If one nation dare oppose us we will collectively organize their neighbors and destroy that country through universal war.
Protocol 8: We have infiltrated the Goyim courts of law and degraded it into a legal jungle. We are now in a position to tell you with a clear conscience that at the proper time we, the law-givers, shall execute judgment and sentence; we shall slay and we shall spare; we as head of our troops are mounted on the steed of the leader. And the weapons in our hands are limitless ambitions, burning greed, merciless vengeance, hatred and malice!
Protocol 9: From us the all-engulfing terror proceeds. We have in our service persons of all opinions, of all doctrines: monarchists, demagogues, socialists, Communists Chris- tians, utopian dreamers of every kind. All are harnessed to our task: everyone of them is boring away at the last rem- nants of authority, striving to overthrow all established forms of order. By these acts all States are in torture; they exhort to tranquility, are ready to sacrifice everything for peace. But we will not give them peace until they openly acknowledge our International Super-Government with submissiveness.
Protocol 10: We have drawn up a master-plan to bring all the nations of the earth under one despotic Jewish dicta- tor, by subjecting all the peoples of the earth to such terrible suffering, confusion, and torment that they will in despera- tion accept whatever we offer to them.
47

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
To secure this we must have everybody vote without dis- tinction of classes and qualifications in order to establish an absolute majority, which cannot be got from the educated propertied classes. Democracies and Republics with every- body having a vote down to the last scum and rabble pro- vides us with our great opportunity.
Protocol 11: The goyim are a flock of sheep and we are their wolves. And you know what happens when the wolves get hold of the flock? God has granted us, His Chosen Peo- ple, the gift of dispersion and in this, which appears in all eyes to be our weakness, has come forth all of our strength, which has now brought us to the threshold of sovereignty over all the world.
Protocol 12: Not a single announcement will reach the public without our control. This arises through the total control of the Press, and control of Masonry at the highest levels.
Protocol 13: In order that the stupid goyim may not guess what we are all about we further distract them with amuse- ments games, pastimes, sex, people’s palaces... Who will ever suspect that all these peoples were stage-managed by us to conform to a political plan which no one has so much as guessed at in the course of many centuries? Liberals and Uto- pian dreamers, whom we will discard once we take over, will take a great part in wrecking goy institutions.
Protocol 14: In countries known as progressive and enlightened we have created a senseless, filthy, abominable
48

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
literature, which we will use to provide a telling relief by con- trast to our government when we attain to power...
Protocol 15: We shall slay without mercy all who take arms to oppose our coming Kingdom.
We shall remake all legislatures, all our laws will be brief, plain, staple, without any kind of interpretations, so that anyone will be in a position to know them perfectly. The main feature will be submission to orders and this principle will be carried to grandiose heights.
Protocol 16: In order to destroy all collective forces save ours we shall emasculate the first stage of collectivism, the universities, by re-educating them in a new direction. Their officials and professors will be appointed with special precau- tion and dependent upon our government; and they will be inculcated with detailed secret action-programs, in order to perform their profession.
We shall erase from memory of men all facts of previous centuries which are undesirable to us and leave only those which depict all errors committed by goyim governments. There will be no such thing as freedom of instruction. All people will be initiated into one faith: Judaism.
Protocol 17: We have long past taken care to discredit the clergy of the goyim and thereby to ruin their mission on earth. Day by day their influence on the peoples of the world is failing.
49

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Freedom of conscience has been declared everywhere. Only years separate us from the complete destruction of Christianity.
Protocol 18: When our Jewish King of the World is in power he will be protected by an aura of mystical Deity, that we will create, making the stupid goyim think of him as a God.
Protocol 19: No dabbling in political affairs will be allowed the goyim. Anyone leading an opposition movement will be put to trial in the same category as thieving or mur- der, or any other abominable and filthy crime. Citizens will have no more influence or control in the affairs of politics than a herd of livestock or cattle.
Protocol 20: The sum total of our actions is settled by the question of figures. The ruin of the Gentile States has been accomplished by withdrawal of money from circula- tion. We alone own their banks and control their fiscal poli- cies. They are bound to us irrevocably by long-term debts and the interest we exact on those debts.
So long as loans were internal the goyim only shuffled their money from the pockets of the poor to the wealthy. When we bought the necessary persons in order to transfer loans into the external sphere all the wealth of the States flowed into our cash boxes and the goyim began to pay us the tribute of subjects.
Protocol 21: We shall replace the money markets by gov- ernment credit institutions, the object of which will fix the price of industrial values in accordance with our views. These
50

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
institutions will be able to fling 500-millions of industrial paper in one day, or to buy up, from that amount. Therefore all industrial undertakings will come into dependence upon us. You may imagine what immense power we shall thereby secure for ourselves.
Protocol 22: In our hands is the great power of our day — gold: in our storehouses we can procure any amount we please.
True force makes no terms with any ‘right,’ not even with that of God: none dare come near to it so as to take so much as a span away from it.
Protocol 23: After our agitators have stirred up dissen- sion, revolution, and the fire of anarchy all over the world, when the Chosen One is on the throne, then these agitators will have played their parts. Having served their usefulness then it will be necessary to sweep them away from his path on which must be left no knot, no splinter.
Protocol 24: The coming King of the World will ema- nate from the ancestral lineage of King David. He will be selected by the Elders of Zion because of his outstanding ability. Only the King and three Elders of Zion will be privy to the mysteries, and secret schemes of the government. None will know what the King wishes to attain by his dispo- sition and therefore none will dare to stand across an unknown path.
FINIS
Anyone like the author, who has...seen and heard with ominous dread the aims... of JEWISH economic, political and
51

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
intellectual life can assert that they (the PROTOCOLS) most unalloyed expression of the JEWISH spirit... that an Aryan mind... could never under any circumstances have devised these methods of action; these underhand expedients and these swin- dles as a whole.
ARTHUR TRIBITSCH, JEW, “Deutscher Geist oder Juden- tum.”
It is... impossible for any intelligent person... to read...t he Protocols... without being astounded by their prophetic insight... In truth, however, we do not need the Protocols... to tell us of these things... What interests me is what I have dis- cerned of the organized use of evil to subvert Western civiliza- tion and bring our traditional values crashing to the ground so that a totally different, a blood-chilling and hateful influence may henceforth dominate the world... Statesmen like Churchill, and Lloyd George; writers like Belloc and Wickham Steed, editors like H. A. Gwynne; Jews themselves of the caliber of Disraeli and Oscar Levy, have all contributed their testi- mony... to a vast accumulation of evidence... Jewish power is real.
A. K. CHESTERTON, “The Learned Elders and the BBC.”
All Gentiles should read the PROTOCOLS OF THE LEARNED ELDERS OF ZION in its entirety to under- stand why JEWS so vehemently protest its authenticity. Here is JEW tribal insanity reflected as in a mirror, darkly: frozen in eternity for all Mankind to see, understand, and resist.
52

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Chapter 2
THE KHAZARS INVENT JUDAISM
The rats are underneath the piles; The JEW is underneath the lot.
T. S. ELIOT, “Burbank with a Baedeker...”
The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings.
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE, “Julius Caesar”
The genetic Khazar-derivation of most Jews — only the Sephardic may be accounted Hebrews by blood — has been long if not widely known. Dunlap at Columbia University, Bury in England, Poliak at Tel Aviv University have researched this “cruelest of jokes” and won research acceptance over the past half-century.
ALFRED M. LILIENTHAL,JEW, The Zionist Connection.
The conversion of the Khazars (to Talmudism) had consid- erable and lasting impact on the Western World. ENCYCLOPEDIA BRITANNICA (1956)
It strikes me that the Jews are specialized for a parasitical existence upon other nations, and there is need of evidence that they are capable of fulfilling the varied duties of a civilized nature by themselves.
SIR FRANCIS GALTON (1812-1911), founder of Eugenics.
Around 600 A.D. a belligerent tribe of half-Mongolian people, similar to the modern Turks, conquered the territory of what is now Southern Russia. Before long the kingdom (khan- ate) of the Khazars, as the tribe was known, stretched from the Caspian to the Black Sea. Its capital, Ityl, was at the mouth of the Volga River.
SOLOMON GRAYZEL, JEW, “A History of the JEWS”
53

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
AS WE HAVE learned, world history is punctuated with accounts of HEBREW deceit, treason, treachery, and deception. One of the most significant, if not thaumaturgical deceptions, was the CONVERSION, by Sephardic rabbis from Constantinoble, of about three million pagan KHAZ- ARS — an ASIATIC tribe with Mongol-Turkic affinities — to the Hebrew religion (TORAH/TALMUDISM) and then convincing Christendom that Khazars are Biblical Judeans in Diaspora! The Khazar's ancient homeland was in the heart of Asia. They were a warlike, predatory nation whose religion was a mixture of phallic worship, idolatry, and lewdness. Dis- liked and feared for their psychopathic behavior, the Khazars were driven out of Asia by neighboring tribes. The ignomin- ious retreat became an invasion of eastern Europe where, “driven by their own desire for plunder and revenge” (Jewish Encyclopedia) the Khazars conquered and subdued twenty- five pastoral nations which they placed under “protective custody” and from whom they exacted tribute. The Khazars settled in the area between the Black and Caspian Seas, grad- ually extending their conquests northward along the Don and Volga Rivers until the Khazar Khanate encompassed over 1-million square miles. By 1000 A.D. KHAZARIA was the largest kingdom in eastern Europe and one of the wealth- iest (in loot not culture). Yet, today, Khazars have been virtu- ally deleted from world history because JEWS want the world to forget they are direct descendants of Asiatic Khazars. JEWS want us to believe they are descendants of Biblical HEBREWS. They are NOT! Therein lies a story.
54

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The Khazars’ Hollywood-like sexual excesses were cor- rupting tribal morale and undermining military discipline. Khagan Bulan wanted and needed a formal religion to instill discipline and create tribal unity. In 730 A.D., Bulan invited representatives of Islam, Christianity, and TALMUDISM to discuss religion with him. After much deliberation the shrewd Khagan selected the Hebrew religion, i.e., TAL- MUDISM (now called JUDAISM), to become the adopted religion of all Khazars. (Like St. Augustine, HEBREW, Bulan aspired to chastity and continence “but, dear Lord, not yet."). Khagan Bulan and 4000 feudal Khazar nobles were quickly converted to TORAH/TALMUDISM (4001 fore- skins!). Gradually, millions of Khazars joined the ranks of GOD'S CHOSEN. Bulan, of course, knew TALMUDISM was a scam. It mattered not as long as his subjects believed. Nor did it matter that Khazars weren't Hebrews (Semitics). That was easily handled. Just LIE! Claim to be JUDEANS! Emerging Christian Europe would accept “Asiatic/ Judeans” just as they naively accepted the Hebrew tribal-diety Yahweh as their God. Undoubtedly, most enticing to Bulan was Jeho- vah's covenant with his Chosen People — and the Protocols designed to make those hallucinations come true. Khazars (see: The Mob, USA) were chiefly extortionists, slave-traders, pimps, assassins, usurers, despised by their Gentile neigh- bors. After generations of warfare against the Rus, Varan- gians, Slavs and Arabs the Khazars (JEWS) were totally defeated (1300 A.D.) on the battlefields. Bereft of their land they dispersed throughout Europe, and elsewhere, explaining why 700-years later so many unwanted JEWS reside in Hun-
55

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
gary, Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Lithuania, Rumania, Galicia, Austria — and Israel! Culturally the Khazars left very little to posterity. Not even a hint of their language exists. But of the poison they bequeathed there exists much (see, ILLUMI- NATI). Never before have two such deviant races, ASIATIC KHAZARS and SEMITIC HEBREWS, shared so many repellent characteristics.
To further explain the devastating effect Khazars have had upon Mankind we must briefly visit England.
In 1775, while Adam Weishaupt, Satan worshiper, revised the PROTOCOLS for Rothschild, JEW/KHAZAR; the British dramatist William Sheridan, in his play The Rivals, coined the word “JEW": a derivative of the word “JUDEAN.” The word “JEW” had been used throughout history in a slangy context (as “Hebe” was used for Hebrew; or “Yid” for Yiddish). It was Sheridan, however, who first legit- imized the word “JEW", using it in print as a propernoun meaning a JUDEAN of HEBRAIC faith, but applying it to a KHAZAR character. IT IS IMPORTANT TO KNOW the word “JEW” does not appear in the original Old Testament written in Hebrew; nor does “JEW” appear in the Targums — O.T. translated into Aramaic; nor does “JEW” appear in the Septuagint (TORAH) — translation of the Aramaic into Greek (3 B.C.). The word “JEW” does NOT appear in any early translations of the HOLY BIBLE (The Latin Vulgate, Rheims/Douai, King James, et al). Therefore, because the word “JEW” was not used until 1775, it is WRONG to call Biblical patriarchs JEWS. They were not. They were
56

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
HEBREWS. Jesus Christ WAS NOT A JEW. He was a rabbi (teacher) who worshipped the Mosaic Law and despised the Pharisaical Oral Law (Talmud). Jesus (if he did exist) was born in Galilee ("Unclean Land of the Gentiles"). He may have been Semitic but he could just as easily have been Aryan. The New Testament conflicts on his lineage. One thing is certain, he was NOT a JEW (Khazar). It is also erro- neous and deliberately deceptive, to apply the word “JEW” to Hebrews/Israelis (Semitics). Finally, the smear word “anti- Semite,” as applied to KHAZAR haters is oxymoronic. The right word is “Judeophobe.”
The study of Judaism is that of the Talmud, as the study of the Talmud is that of Judaism...they are two inseparable things, or better, they are one and the same.
ARSENE DARMESTETER, JEW, “The Talmud.”
After 1776 the Khazars’ PR ploy began to pay off: they were accepted by Christendom (the neutered lions) as rem- nants of the Judean tribe (Hebrews) in Diaspora and were officially designated “JEWS.” Penultimately, Pharisaism became Talmudism; and finally Talmudism became JUDA- ISM: the religion of today's KHAZARS. The words “JEW” and “JUDAISM” began to appear, for the first time, in revised editions of the Talmuds, and began to appear in ALL revised editions of the Holy Bible. Today, Ashkenazim (Asi- atic/Khazar); and Sephardim (Biblical Hebrews/ Israelites) — who correctly HATE one another — are lumped together as “JEWS.” Thus, Khazars (with a wink of an eye) aban-
57

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
doned their Asiatic affinities and became “Hebrews;” became Yahweh’s Chosen People, beneficiaries of the Covenant, and heirs to Palestine and all the minerals and other goodies therein. In addition, Khazars fortified their racial hatred of the Aryan tribes with TALMUDIC HATRED FOR ALL GENTILES. Anthropologists refer to Khazars as Mongol- Armenoid JEWS. Historians refer to them as Ashkenazi (Asi- atic/European JEWS). Psychiatrists refer to them as man- icdepressives. JEWS deserve their sobriquet: “Masters of deceit.” Ergo, today all so-called “JEWS” fanatically believe (or pretend) they are God's Chosen People elected to rule the world. ANY means may be employed to achieve that DELU- SION. Such mind-sets are symptomatic of psychopathic per- sonalities, and are associated with dementia praecox, megalomania, infantilism, meshuggenah, manic-depression, delusions of grandeur, sadism, et al. Another conclusion that logically may be drawn from this insane charade, is that any people — say 10-million Watusi, or 50-million Chinese — need only convert to JUDAISM and they then have Khazar- like “rights” to own Palestine, kill Arabs, and destroy Gen- tiles everywhere!
The Jews might have had Uganda, Madagascar and other places for the establishment of a Jewish Fatherland, but they want absolutely nothing except Palestine: not because the Dead Sea water can by evaporation produce 5-trillion dollars worth of metaloids..not because the subsoil of Palestine contains twenty times more petroleum than the combined reserves of the two Americas; but because Palestine is the cross-roads of Europe, Asia, and Africa; because Palestine constitutes the veritable cen-
58

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ter of world political power, the strategic center for world con- trol.
NAHUM GOLDMAN, President, World Jewish Congress.
Chaim Weizmann, JEW, the British War Cabinet, and French Foreign Office were convinced by 1916... that the best and perhaps the only way (which proved so to be) to induce the American President to come into the war (WWI) was to secure the cooperation of Zionist JEWS by promising them Palestine, and thus enlist and mobilize the hitherto unsuspectedly power- ful forces of Zionist JEWS in America and elsewhere in favor of the Allies on a quid pro quo contract...
SAMUEL LANDMAN, JEW, “Great Britain, the Jews & Pales- tine.”
Next, we will briefly examine the ILLUMINATI which today marks the culmination of the CONSPIRACY. The ancient myths and the LIES and the comic-book characters come to life. The HOAX becomes reality.
59

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Chapter 3
THE ILLUMINATI
The World is ruled by very different personages than those who are not behind the scenes would imagine.
BENJAMIN DISRAELI, JEW, British Prime Minister, 1868
300 men, all members of Lodges, all acquainted with each other, control the continent.
WALTER RATHENAU, JEW, German Mininster of Foreign Affairs (President of 84 major German companies, murdered 1920).
Since I entered politics I have chiefly had men's views con- fided to me privately. Some of the biggest men in the United States in the field of commerce and manufacture are afraid of somebody, are afraid of something. They know there is a power somewhere so organized, so subtle, so watchful, so interlocked, so complete, so pervasive, that they had better not speak above their breath when they speak in condemnation of it. WOODROW WILSON, President U.S.A., The New Freedom.
One by one JEWS were getting control of the big newspa- pers ...Jewish banks were supreme. They captured the U.S. trea- sury. They forced upon Woodrow Wilson the appointment of Paul Warburg, JEW, on the Federal Reserve Board, which he dominates....whose brother Max Warburg (Head of German Intelligence) is a prominent figure in German finance.
SIR CECIL SPRING-RICE, British Ambassador to the United States, Germany, and Russia (1916)
The amount of our National Debt is the measure of our enslavement to Jewish World Finance. We live in a democracy yet loans are contracted that always cost more than the amount of the loan and no one has a word to say about it. We Ameri- cans do not know how much interest we pay every year and we
60

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
don't know to whom we pay it.
HENRY FORD, Sr., The International Jew.
What is important to dwell upon is the increasing evidence of a secret conspiracy throughout the world for the destruction of organized government and the letting loose of evil...promi- nent politicians, philosophers and soldiers are found at critical moments giving views of an absolutely non-moral description, which are not in accord with their behavior in ordinary life...it is here that the conspiracy of evil against humanity become rec- ognizable.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR, “The Jewish Peril", 6- 19-20.
The purpose is nothing less than to create a world system of control in private hands able to dominate the political system of each country and the world economy.
CARROLL QUIGLEY, Prof. Georgetown U., Tragedy and Hope.
The meaning of the history of the last century is that 300 Jewish Financiers, all Masters of Lodges, rule the World. (1931) JEAN IZOULET, JEW, Jewish Alliance Israelite Universelle.
Mr. Speaker, it is a monstrous thing for this great Nation to have its destiny presided over by a traitorous Federal Reserve System acting in secret with International Usurers.
LOUIS T. McFADDEN, Chr. House Banking Committee, 6- 10-32.
The Trilateralists don't secretly rule the world, the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) does that.
WINSTON LORD, former Chairman of the CFR.
The members of the CFR are persons of much more than average influence in their communities. They have used the prestige of their wealth, their social position, their education to lead their country toward bankruptcy and military debacle. They should look at their hands. There is blood on them. CHICAGO HERALD TRIBUNE.
61

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
What the Trilateral Commission truly intends is the cre- ation of a world-wide economic power superior to the political governments of the nation-states involved... as managers and creators of the system they will rule the future... Populations are treated as nothing more than producing economic groups. Free- dom (Political, Spiritual, Economic) is denied any importance. U.S. SEN. BARRY GOLDWATER, JEW, With No Apologies.
At Secret Meetings in Switzerland 13 People Shape the World's Economy. The Bank of International Settlements was established in 1930 to assist in the payments of reparations owed by Germany and other losers in WWI to the victors. Today it protects the world financial system. The most power- ful voices are U.S representative Alan Greenspan, Federal Reserve chairman and his back-up Alice M. Rivlin. (Both JEWS).
WASHINGTON POST, (excerpted) 6-28-98).
THE MYTH: In the Beginning LUCIFER, “Angel of Light,” believed himself greater than Yahweh. Disguised as a serpent in the Garden of Eden, Lucifer seduced Eve (the TALMUD says fornicated with her), breaking God's Laws, introducing sin into the World. For this and other abomina- tions Lucifer and his co-CONSPIRATORS among the Heavenly Host were cast from Heaven. Because he is an archangel Lucifer remains an indestructible malignant spirit created we're told by Yahweh, the “omnipotent”!
O how thou art fallen from Heaven O Lucifer, Son of the Morning Star! How art thou cut down To the ground which did weaken the Nations!
HOLY BIBLE: Isaiah 14.
62

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Lucifer (Satan, The Devil) established an earthly king- dom where he and his disciples (ILLUMINATI) profited from the tears, toil, sweat and blood of Mankind: garnering men's bodies and souls. Lucifer's enterprise was so successful that Yahweh waxed sorely wroth and in a pique of jealousy (HOLOCAUST numero uno) drowned the entire human race — men, women, and children! — with the exception of Noah, HEBREW, “a lovable drunk,” and his family. Albeit, after the mass-drownings everything went to Hell in a bas- ket, again. And again. And again! The crux of this HEBRAIC myth is: God cannot defeat Satan!
THE REALITY: the myth explains why Rothschild named the ILLUMINATI for Lucifer, and why he adopted into his cartouche the symbolic Hebraic Snake, representing Lucifer's cunning and deception. Lucifer's apostasy and his modus operandi appeal greatly to Usurers: human snakes with little or nothing to commend them: namely, those of no honor, no courage, no creativity, little skill, ugliness of body and soul. What they possess in abundance is deception, greed, hubris, and malevolence. Why labor, they ask, when one can garner the world's riches through lies, theft, false- witness and by appealing to the “baseness that lies within all men's souls”?
A few pages back we met Amschul Mayer Bauer, JEW pawn-broker who discovered he could garner huge profits issuing short-term vouchers in amounts far exceeding his assets. This interest- bearing paper, guaranteed by Bauer, was often used as a means of exchange in the market-place. As
63

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
long as the holders, in concert, didn't demand gold in exchange for their paper Shylock escaped the noose. In short, Bauer issued notes to borrowers, for a fee, representing assets he didn't own (See: Federal Reserve System). He decided to discontinue the pawnshop; changed his sur-name to Roths- child (“Red Shield”) and concentrated on his lucrative bank- ing scam. By the end of the 18th Century Rothschild & Sons had become the dominant banking house in Europe, and his scam became the corner-stone of the Rothschild central banking system that now controls the Federal Reserve Sys- tem). Rothschild had more in mind than money. In him was combined TALMUDIC hatred for Gentiles and the Khazar thirst for revenge against the Aryan race. The name “Red Shield” became the symbol of World Revolution. As you remember, Rothschild commissioned Adam Weishaupt (apostate Jesuit priest kicked out of his post at Ingoldstadt University for practicing Satan worship) to update the ancient Protocols. The organization Weishaupt created to implement those plans is the ILLUMINATI.
The ILLUMINATI, is headed by a KHAGAN. The Khagan presides over the KEHILLA (Board of Directors), composed of 13 JEWS, most of whom are International Bankers. Each of these Directors heads a key organizations within the World Revolutionary Movement. Directors rotate as chairman of the ILLUMINATI which seats 300 influen- tial personages, not only JEWS, representing the most important fields of human endeavor: finance, mass- media, government, military, foreign affairs, science, industry, busi-
64

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ness, education, religion, and so on. However, because it is a SECRET ORGANIZATION it is virtually invisible. Like the wind it is revealed by its influence and damage, to wit:
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION 1778, the first ILLU- MINATI coup d'etat against Christendom revealed the PROTOCOLS in action.
When the debt-grip has been firmly established, control of every form of publicity and political activity soon follows, together with a full grip on industrialists (management and labor)... the grip of the right hand establishes paralysis; while the revolutionary left hand holds the dagger and deals the fatal blow.
SIR WALTER SCOTT, The Life of Napoleon (Scott's nine vol- umes are suppressed because of their Judeophobic position and are never catalogued with his other works).
While M. Basalmo's JEW newspapers slandered Church and State, the ILLUMINATI organized the Reign of Terror. Jacobin Clubs were established throughout France to serve as meeting houses for the canaille.
There are hints in Restif too of class racialism, of the fears felt by the bourgeois and the artisan for the pale men with dark ill-kempt hair, piercing eyes and shaggy mustaches... his canaille is always dark and glowering... The respectable: the men of property, the virtuous craftsmen are fair and have good com- plexions.
BRITISH LITERARY REVIEW, Restiff de la Bretonne — accounts of the Terror.
65

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Continental Freemasonry is, and has been for 200 years, notoriously Jew controlled.
A. K. CHESTERTON, The New Unhappy Lords (1974).
L’INFAMIE (lies, slander and false-witness), is one of the JEWS most feared weapons. The victim is unaware of the sly whispers circulated behind his back until he begins to sense stares of condemnation, rejection, and sudden reverses in fortune. There is virtually no way to refute this anonymous destruction of one’s reputation. For targets of greater magni- tude the ILLUMINATI unlimbers its entire character-assas- sination apparatus, from mass-media campaigns to Congressional investigating committees, IRS intimidation, and SWAT teams.
The gradual change in direction of Western aspirations (c. 1750) proceeding from Culture to Civilization created stress and fractures within the monarchies of Europe, requir- ing time to diagnose, treat and heal. JEWS sensed in this indisposition an opportunity to attack. What most certainly would have been a peaceful revolution in France was turned into a tragedy. For the first time the West witnessed JEW POWER: The ILLUMINATI fomented the FRENCH REVOLUTION. L’INFAMIE ignited it.
Louis XVI's Queen, Marie Antoinette, was the daughter of Francis I of Austria. Marie's sister, knowing the Bavarian Government had exposed the ILLUMINATI, warned her about the PROTOCOLS and of the impending danger. The Queen wrote:
66

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
I believe that as far as France is concerned you worry too much about Freemasonry. Here it is far from having the signifi- cance it may have elsewhere in Europe.
ILLUMINATI agent Moses Mendlesohn, JEW, com- missioned a London jeweler to create a 250,000-livres dia- mond necklace which was delivered to Marie Antoinette. Leaks of the Queen's “indulgence” appeared in Paris newspa- pers infuriating government officials, the Church, and the populace. Marie was able to prove she had not ordered the necklace but great damage had been done to the monarchy's reputation. Then Joseph Basalmo, JEW, had 500-thousand pamphlets distributed charging the Queen, “That Austrian whore” (an appellation applied later to the Czarina, by the BOLSHEVIKS), with giving sexual favors to a secret lover in return for the necklace. Spinning the web ever tighter, Basalmo, JEW, forged the Queen's signature on a letter invit- ing Cardinal Prince de Rohan to meet with her at the royal palace to discuss the necklace matter. An actress was hired to impersonate the Queen. The resultant scenario, with hidden eye-witnesses, implicated the Cardinal in an affair d' amour with the Queen. The scandal engulfed the highest person- ages of Church and State. The HOAX, for that is all it was, widened the gulf between the monarchy and the populace, lowering their resistance to the ILLUMINATI.
When the canaille (JEW agitators in the press and on the streets) had worked France into a frenzy of despair, prison and asylum gates suddenly were thrown open. THE TERROR was unleashed. While criminals and lunatics ran
67

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
wild, burning, raping killing — screaming “Liberty, Equality, Fraternity” and waving Rothschild's Red Flag — Jacobin Clubs rounded-up and jailed without trial bourgeoisie and aristocrats: men, women and children listed for extermina- tion by the ILLUMINATI.
Marquis de Mirabeau, and Robespierre, goy leaders of the revolution against their own race, realized too late that men more powerful than they had created THE TERROR. Mirabeau in a final act of redemption, attempted to save the doomed Royal Family. He was thwarted and beheaded. Robespierre, before he was shot in the jaw to silence him, said before the Convention:
I cannot bring myself to tear asunder the veil that covers this profound mystery of iniquity. But I can affirm most posi- tively that among the authors of this plot are the agents of that system of corruption and extravagance — the most powerful of all the means invented by the foreigners — for the undoing of the Republic: I mean the impure apostles of Atheism; and the immorality that is its base.
ROBESPIERRE, from Life of Robespierre, by George Renier.
Robespierre’s discretion in not revealing the CON- SPIRATORS availed him not. He knew too much and was beheaded as were almost all goy revolutionary leaders. Now we know he was concealing the identity of: Daniel Itg, (Ber- lin); Herz Gergsbeer, (Alsace); The Rothschilds, and Sir Moses Montifiore (England), all JEW financiers who sought to institute constitutional monarchy in France as they had in England. Absolute monarchy, combined with nationalism,
68

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
absolutely rejects usury. The JEWS, then, launched a conti- nental war against France. This required huge foreign pur- chases by ALL participants: France, England, Spain, et al, but the ILLUMNATI bushwacked France by refusing to accept payments in assignats. This led to THE TERROR.
“Popular” history depicts Marie Antoinette as a giddy, wanton, compassionless woman who, upon learning the populace had no bread, said: “Let them eat cake.” Serious historians have proved the Queen's detractors were JEW LIARS. The Queen bore the suffering inflicted upon her and her family with dignity, and met her death on the Guillotine with great courage.
Napoleon I (1769-1821), also, struggled against the snares and LIES of the ILLUMINATI. Bonaparte's tarnished reputation rests on the fact that he, a hero of the people, opposed interest-bearing money. The chief concern of the Usurer was to continue the wars and finance them.
It cannot be too strongly insisted that finance and not ter- ritory aggrandizement is the key to Napoleon’s reign. Had the French Emperor consented to abandon his financial system in favor of the System of London (Central Banking) — that is in favor of loans by the money-market — he could have had peace at any time.
R. MICHAEL WILSON, Napoleon’s Love.
During the PENINSULAR WAR (1809) Wellington confronted French troops in Spain. The Iberian coastline was blockaded by the French fleet which interdicted supplies
69

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
meant for the British forces. The problem was solved by the British House of Rothschild which notified the French House of Rothschild which then smuggled gold to Welling- ton by mule train through the Pyrenees. Gelt in hand, Well- ington purchased supplies and forage from the Spaniards. And what about the troops dying for Ideals, God, and Coun- try? The JEWS smile.
As the battle of WATERLOO developed upon which the fate of England and France rested, the ILLUMINATI hatched a plot that allowed it to learn of the battle's results before the two governments did. A system was devised in which carrier pigeons flew across the Channel (giving rise to the expression: “A little bird told me."). Upon confirmation of Wellington's victory (1815) Rothschild agenteurs in Lon- don reported the battle was lost! The British money-market, panicked — investors unloaded valuable stocks and govern- ment securities at rock-bottom prices. Behind the scenes Rothschild bought everything he could lay hands on. In France a similar scam was carried out. The dead got buried. The heroes got medals, and the BANKERS smiled.
The name of Rothschild thus became ubiquitous and it was well remarked that the House was spread like a network over the nations; and it is no wonder that its operations upon the money-market should at length be felt by every cabinet in Europe.
RABBI MOSE MARGOLUTH (1851).
70

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The AGE OF REASON was the soil from whence sprang the idea of Capitalism: free-enterprise, competition, individualism ("every man for himself"); the monetary sys- tem was part of capitalism. The entire thrust of this stage in the organic development of Western Culture has been mis- directed by the ILLUMINATI moneymonopoly. Capitalism has come to mean USURY and as you know usury means debt — which is slavery.
The Satanical character of the INDUSTRIAL REVO- LUTION, begun in England (c. 1760), bore the cloven imprint of the Rothschilds. It was they who established the building codes, and ordinances, and set standards and values. JEWS hold NO patriotism for their host country: NO love of the landscape, the State, its history, and its people. They view THEIRTALMUDIC WORLD as one without bound- aries; upon goyim as THEIR sheep to be fleeced. Had Aryan Man controlled his own MONEY he would NOT have cre- ated hellish factory towns, using his own children as slave labor. He would have shaped the Industrial Revolution with the same artistry and love he used in creating his great music, literature, art, sciences and cathedrals. USURY degrades. USURY enslaves.
In COLONIAL AMERICA, after the Bank of England (dominated by JEWS) refused to accept the American colo- nies’ debt-free script, Benjamin Franklin bitterly remarked, “prosperity ended and depression and unemployment set in.” To survive, colonists had to mortgage assets and securi- ties to the Bank of England. The War of Independence
71

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
(1776) was not against George III, as history books would have you believe, but against JEW USURERS.
The Bank of England refused to give more than 50% of the face value of our Script when turned over as required by law. The circulating medium of exchange was thus reduced by half....The colonies would gladly have borne the little tax on tea, and other matters, had it not been that England took away from the Colonies their money, which created unemployment... BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, U.S. Senate Document No.23.
During the ensuing years, before establishing the FED, the ILLUMINATI created financial panics, money shortages and spread L'Infamie, in order to create public dissatisfaction with America's monetary system and replace it with their own.
You are a den of thieves — vipers! I intend to rout you out, and by the Eternal God I will rout you out!
ANDREW JACKSON, President U.S.A., c. 1835
THE CIVIL WAR
A strategic opportunity presented itself when deep social antagonisms began to threaten America's stability. The ILLUMINATI fanned the sparks knowing that they would reap a golden harvest if they could divide the North and the South ideologically and then prod both sides into a pro- tracted, and bloody civil war.
72

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
It is not to be doubted, I know with absolute certainty, that the separation of the United States into two federations of equal powers had been decided upon well in advance of the Civil War by the top financial power of Europe.
OTTO VON BISMARCK, Chancellor, Germany.
The American Civil War, in a very real sense, was the con- tinuation of the Revolutionary war fought by our Founders against the Bank of England. The Civil War was planned in London by Rothschild who wanted two American democra- cies, each burdened with debt. Four years before the war (1857) Rothschild decided his Paris bank would support the South, represented by Sen. John Slidell, JEW, from Louisi- ana; while the British branch would support the North, rep- resented by August Belmont (Schoenberg) JEW, from New York. The plan was to bankroll, at usurious interest rates, the huge war debts that were anticipated, using that debt to extort both sides into accepting a Rothschild central-banking system similar to the one that had bled (and is bleeding) the nations of Europe, keeping them in conditions of perpetual war, insolvency and at the mercy of JEW speculators.
As in pre-Revolution France ILLUMINATI agitators, like maggots attacking a raw wound, were set to work in the North and the South at all levels of government and throughout society to exploit the divisive issues threatening the nation. The International Bankers were successful. All efforts for North-South peace failed.
73

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Propaganda pushed the issue of slavery to the fore but the actual purpose behind the war...was to drive both sides to accept the same money system Rothschild had fastened on England and the Continent...to bleed the vast productivity of the whole American People.
WILLIAM G. SIMPSON, Which Way Western Man.
The government should create, issue and circulate all cur- rency and credit needed to satisfy the spending powers of the government and the buying power of the consumers. PRESIDENT ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Lincoln said he feared the International Bankers more than the Confederacy. He clearly saw the conspiracy devel- oping around him, reaching into his very cabinet. In an effort to defang Rothschild he prevailed upon Congress to issue $150-million “Greenbacks” — interest- free currency backed by the U.S. Government (they have been circulating in the United States debt free ever since). However, Interna- tional JEWRY refused to accept them. Both sides in the con- flict desperately needed large amounts of money to carry on the war. Only Rothschild could provide that money — at usurious rates. BLOODMONEY.
The United States were sold to the Rothschilds in 1863. EZRA POUND, “Impact.”
As a result of the war...the money power of this country will endeavor to prolong its reign by working on the prejudices of the people until the wealth is aggregated into the hands of a few and the Republic is destroyed. I feel more anxiety for the safety of my country than ever before, even in the midst of the war.
PRESIDENT ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
74

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
624,511 soldiers died in the Civil War (1861-1865) 475,881 soldiers were wounded. The figures remain incom- plete because some records were not kept, and others were lost, especially during the early stages of the war. After the war, realizing the Union's real enemy was Rothschild, the President, emphasizing the Constitution, made it crystal clear to Congress that:
The privilege of creating and issuing money is... the supreme prerogative of government!
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
The U.S. Constitution gives only Congress the power to coin money and regulate the value thereof; the Supreme Court ruled that Congress may not abdicate that function.
President Lincoln had thrown down the gauntlet. Under his administration a Rothschild central-banking system would not be tolerated.
Lincoln further infuriated JEWRY when he announced his intentions to colonize America's recently manumitted Negroes. JEWS wanted Negroes to remain in the United States as cheap labor (now that they didn't have to be cared for and supported), and also as a divisive racial element avail- able for future revolutionary exploitation.
Lincoln's intransigence sealed his fate. The impediment had to be removed. Persuasive evidence suggests that Lincoln’s assassin, John Wilkes Booth (Botha), JEW, was hired for the hit
75

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
by Judah Benjamin, JEW, Treasurer of the Confederacy. Ben- jamin was a close associate of Benjamin Disraeli, JEW (1804-1881), British Prime Minister. Disraeli, Benjamin and Booth had, together, conferred with the Rothschilds. When Booth escaped from Ford's Theater he fled “quite by chance” over the only road exiting Washington, D.C. not blocked by troops. Found among his possessions was a code book identi- cal to one found in the possession of Benjamin; and another, its pages ripped out, among the possessions of U.S. Secretary of War, Stanton. After the murder Benjamin fled to London, welcomed by his tribe. Recently, Booth's relatives asked that his grave in Maryland be exhumed. They don't believe Booth is in it. But permission was denied by unnamed authorities.
Should you perchance visit the long lines of Yankee and Rebel dead at Pea Ridge, Gettysburg, Shiloh, Chickamau- gua, Cold Harbor, Chancellorsville, Antietam et al — remember that each Cross represents BLOOD-MONEY and tears and pain exacted by TALMUDIC KHAZAR JEWS.
Thirty-five years after Appomatox, AT THE DAWN OF THE BLOODIEST CENTURY IN WORLD HIS- TORY, the ILLUMINATI set the stage for WORLD WAR I. MONEY was manipulated, unemployment soared. What- ever their country of residence JEWS spread L'INFAMIE, as they have in all of their wars and revolutions, demonizing their enemy. Drums began to beat. In America JEWS used flattery and coercion to penetrate the White House. They handled President Wilson — as later they handled FDR —
76

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
“like a monkey on a string.” To the dismay of patriots the U.S. Congress enacted the unconstitutional FEDERAL RESERVE ACT (1913), giving Rothschild total control of America's monetary system. From that moment on the ILLUMINATI has controlled the machinery of the United States Government. (Today, JEWS walk in and out of the Oval Office, and the Treasury, in the manner they walk in and out of the Hillcrest Club, L.A). Immediately JEWS pre- pared the United States for WWI which, at that time, the American people had no suspicion was being planned. To assure the BANKERS would be reimbursed principal plus interest Congress enacted the 16th Amendment to the Con- stitution establishing the first personal-income tax in Ameri- can history. Not only were Americans expected to die in a war against their German kin they were to pay JEWS for the privilege.
That same fateful year, 1913, JEWS established the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith — whose m.o. is Defamation. Its stated purpose is to identify, expose and eradicate “Anti-Semitism” (sic) which is equated with any criticisms of JEWS. Congress cringes before its baleful eyes. The ADL, headquartered in New York City, employs a per- manent staff of 225 lawyers, lobbyists, social engineers, edu- cators, and PR specialists. It has regional offices throughout the civilized World.
The B’NAI B’RITH (Sons of the Covenant), a secret cabal, claims tax-deductible status as a religious and charita- ble organization. Its network penetrates every level of the
77

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
JEWISH community, here and abroad. Its purpose is to unite all JEWS behind implementation of the Protocols.
As early as 1913 the outcome of the forthcoming war was well known to inside players. The advance-strategy, after the European combatants were exhausted and swamped in debt, was to bring America's unequaled resources and might into the conflict. Brain-washed Americans, in a killing frenzy, rushed “over there” to “save the world for Democ- racy” — a word that appears nowhere in the U.S. Constitu- tion. The real objectives were:
1. Annihilate Christian Russia, Aryan enemy of MARX- ISM/LIBERALISM/JEWRY.
2. Replace Europe's Absolute Monarchies with Demo- cratic governments. Thus, exposing Aryan Christian Europe to the virus of LIBERALISM/MARXISM/JEWRY.
3. Inundate Europe under mountainous debts to be repaid at usurious interest rates to the ILLUMINATI.
4. Establish a ZIONIST Homeland in Palestine (Brit- ain's tribute to “American” JEWS for bringing America into the war).
5. Destruction of Germany. JEWRY had invested heavily in the British Empire, owned by the Bank of England. Germany's merchant marine, inter-continental railway, foreign trade and colonies posed a serious economic threat.
6. Kill the cream of Aryan manhood, exposing the White gene-pool to miscegenation and White slavery.
78

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
In Europe and America the ILLUMINATI placed their goy chess-pieces in high offices. JEWS holding positions of trust within the various European governments, used confi- dences gained at the highest level to betray their host States and use that knowledge to advance ILLUMINATI objec- tives. For example: Max Warburg, JEW, head of German Intelligence, financed Lenin's Bolsheviks. Max's brother, Paul Warburg, architect of the Federal Reserve System, bought the presidency for Woodrow Wilson and, with Jacob Schiff, Kuhn-Loeb & Co., financed Leon Trotsky's Bolshe- vik cut-throats.
Soon thereafter, financial crises began erupting through- out the West creating confusion and despair. Ethnic differ- ences between the European states were exacerbated by L'INFAMIE. The Balkans were turned into a tinder-box of political and racial animosities. Archduke Ferdinand of Aus- tria traveled to Serbia seeking to ameliorate the differences there. He and his lovely wife were murdered in Sarajevo (6- 28-1914), by Gavrilo Princip, Freemason. The dominoes began to fall — one by one.
The Archduke knew quite well that the risk of an attempt on his life was imminent. A year before the war he had informed me that the Freemasons had resolved his death. COUNT CZERNIN, In the World War.
He is a remarkable man; it is a pity that he is con- demned, he will die on the steps of his throne.
LEON PONCINS, Secret Power Behind Revolution.
79

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
The murder of the Archduke ignited material which otherwise would not have taken fire as it did, or perhaps at all. It is therefore important to trace the origins of the plot in which he fell a victim....
SIDNEY B. FAY, Origins of the World War.
The Party Line was to unite all revolutionary bodies for the purposes of bringing all the big capitalistic countries into war with each other so that all the terrific losses suffered, the high taxes imposed and the hardships endured by the masses of the population, would make the majority of the working classes react favorably to ...a revolution to end all wars. When all the countries had been Sovietized then the ILLUMINATI would form a totalitarian dictatorship ...It is possible that only Lenin knew the secret aims and ambitions of the ILLUMINATI, who molded the revolutionary action to suit their purpose. The rev- olutionary leaders were to organize their underground in all countries so as to be able to take over the nation’s political sys- tem and economy; the International Bankers were to extend the ramifications of their agencies around the world... WILLIAM GUY CARR, R.D., Pawns in the Game.
A series of assassinations were committed (1881-1914) to advance ILLUMINATI war objectives, the most critical were: Czar Alexander II ("Little Father") Russia, in 1881; the Empress of Austria, in 1893; King Humbert of Italy in 1900; U.S. President McKinley in 1901; Grand Duke Sergius of Russia in 1905; Premier, V. von Plehve, Russia, in 1905; Premier, Peter A. Stolypin, Russia, in 1911; King Car- los and the Crown Prince of Portugal in 1908; Archduke Ferdinand and Duchess, Austria in 1914. All of these mur- ders, and many more, are traceable to Bolshevism, Freema- sonry (Masons of the Grand Orient) and other
80

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ILLUMINATI sponsored terror groups. At the Austrian Mil- itary Trial (10-12-14), investigating the murder of the Arch- duke, the prosecutor questioned Cabrinovic — the assassin who threw the first bomb — he replied:
Freemasonry had to do with it because it strengthened my intentions. In Freemasonry it is permitted to kill... Freema- sonry had condemned the Archduke to death more than a year before.
I. CABRINOVIC, Freemason, Serb.
Let me take you back to 1913. If I had stood here in 1913 and told you, "Come to a conference to discuss the recon- struction of a national home in Palestine," you would have looked at me as a dreamer; even if I out of all that followed came a chance, the opportunity, the occasion for establishing a national home for Jews in Palestine. Has it ever occurred to you how out of the welter of world blood there has arisen this opportunity? Do you really believe this has been an accident? Do you really in your hearts believe that we have been led back to Israel by nothing but a fluke? Do you believe there is no greater meaning in the opportunity we have been given? After two thousand years of wandering in the Wilderness we have a chance and an opportunity bestowed on us, and many sit back and say it is of no interest to us. I wonder if they have thought of the chain of circumstances.
LORD MELCHETT, JEW, Pres., English Zionist Federation.
WORLD WAR ONE (1914) exploded as planned. It was Germany, one of Europes most cultured and civilized states — who had given to an admiring world her magnifi- cent music, and her scientific genius — who had been specif-
81

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
ically targeted for reasons mentioned above and, also, because Germany represented the HEART OF CHRIS- TENDOM. The JEW controlled media inevitably demon- izes its enemies as depraved monsters: German soldiers were accused of amputating the hands of Belgian children; of bay- oneting pregnant women then butchering the fetuses; of sinking passenger ships at random, then "obscenely" machine-gunning survivors in life-boats. "Huns" were accused of making lamp-shades and rendering bars of soap from enemy corpses. German-Americans were put out of business. Bricks were thrown through their living-room win- dows. Total responsibility for the war was laid upon Ger- many.
Although Russia was an ALLY of Britain and France JEWRY financed the Bolkshevik Revolution against the Russian state. L'INFAMIE engulfed the Czar and German born Czarina, creating distrust of the monarchy, and foment- ing mutiny in the military. This allowed crack German troops to transfer from the Eastern front to the Western front, where the bloody engagements in no-man's land soon shifted in Germany's favor.
At this critical moment, ILLUMINATIST Baron Edmund de Rothschild, JEW (Bank of England), arranged an audience between Lord Arthur Balfour, British Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Chaim Weizmann, JEW, co-founder of ZIONISM. Weizmann proposed that JEWS would bring America into the war against Germany if Britain, quid pro quo, would guaranty a Jewish Homeland in Palestine. Brit-
82

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ain agreed, double-crossing the Arabs (Sykes-Picot Treaty) who had been fighting for Britain against theTurks. The first secret draft of the Balfour Declaration was cabled to Presi- dent Wilson, whose advisors, Rabbi Wise, Louis Denmitz Brandeis, JEW; Bernard Baruch, JEW, Felix Frankfurter, JEW, Edward Mandel House, JEW, made additions and cor- rections. Ultimately, Baron Edmund de Rothschild wrote the final draft, changing the line "a homeland for the Jewish Race" to "a homeland for the Jewish People." The text was then typed on British Foreign Office letterhead and signed by Lord Balfour. The last paragraph reads: "I would be grate- ful if you would bring this declaration to the attention of the Zionist Federation." It was addressed to Baron Edmund de Rothschild who had written the final text and was a member of the ILLUMINATI KEHILLA that had planned America's entry into the war! (Britain earned the sobriquet "Treacher- ous Albion" after Cromwell gave the Bank of England to the JEWS, 1653 ).
A "little bird" told Winston Churchill that WWI would occur September 1914; accordingly, February 1913, he had the British liner Lusitania converted into an auxiliary cruiser armed with twelve six-inch naval cannon: a fact published in Jane's Fighting Ships (1914), the standard international naval reference. In America, however, the Lusitania was advertised as a passenger ship. The German Admiralty warned, in display ads in the New York Times, that the Lusi- tania was carrying war materiel — therefore, was considered a priz de guerre. The U.S. State Department denied German
83

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
claims. The Lusitania, which Churchill had described earlier as "45,000-tons of live-bait" set sail and was torpedoed in deep water off the Irish Coast by a German U-Boat (1915). The Lusitania sank, as planned, with great loss of life. (see: WTC, 9-11-01) L'INFAMIE against Germany filled the air- waves, print and pulpit. Within three years, bombarded by incessant lies, Boobus Americanus reached a feeding frenzy, swallowed the "bait," and rushed off to Europe to "save the World for Democracy"! (a word not mentioned in the U.S. Constitution) and to kill their own blood-relations — the "Despicable Hun"!
Chaim Weizmann, the British War Cabinet, and French Foreign Office were convinced by 1916 ...that the best and per- haps the only way (which proved so to be) to induce the Ameri- can President to come into the war (WWI) was to secure the cooperation of Zionist Jews by promising them Palestine, and thus enlist and mobilize the hitherto unsuspectedly powerful forces of Zionist Jews in America and elsewhere in favor of the Allies on a quid pro quo contract...
SAMUEL LANDMAN, JEW, Great Britain, the Jews & Pales- tine.
In Russia, Lenin's and Trotsky's anarchists converged. Three million unarmed middle-class (Bourgeois), Christians and Muslims, were slaughtered in the initial thrust of the BOLSHEVIK REVOLUTION, and 31-million Europeans died in its aftermath. Millions simply disappeared into the Gulag — forever. Almost the entire White (Petrine) cultural stratum, was wiped out (the "final solution"). Russia, there-
84

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
after, was lost to the West: its post-revolution population being predominantly Asiatic.
Nationalism is a danger for the Jewish people. Today, as in all epochs of history, it is proved that Jews cannot live in powerful states where a high national culture has developed. THE JEWISH SENTINEL, Chicago 9-24-36.
I believe national pride (patriotism) is nonsense. BERNARD BARUCH, JEW, Chicago Tribune 9-25-35. (Advi- sor to Wilson, Roosevelt, Eisenhower).
Colin Simpson, British journalist, acting under the Freedom of Information Act, discovered the missing Lusita- nia Bill of Lading among Franklin Roosevelt's effects at Hyde Park, N.Y. (1973). Roosevelt, a Harvard fop, and Under-Secretary U.S. Navy during WWI, had treasonously concealed from the U.S. Congress the missing Bill of Lading (later he concealed the "bait" at Pearl Harbor, "a date that will live in infamy"). The Lusitania was, indeed, loaded with war materiel bound for England (belligerent), and departing from the United States (neutral), thus breaking International Maritime Law. A private salvage company (November 1982), exploring the ill fated ship lying deep off the Irish coast, used underwater camera equipment that revealed a torpedo had struck a compartment holding munitions. The explosion forced the Lusitania's mangled hull outwards.
Following the 1918 Armistice, Britain blockaded Ger- man ports causing the starvation deaths of over a million
85

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Germans, who were reduced to eating garbage and rats. Ger- many's famous schools and universities were filled with JEWS, while German youth, unable to afford even food, went from the trenches to bread-lines. White slavery flour- ished as JEWS ostensibly made legitimate job offers to pen- niless young women who were then shipped to foreign prostitution rings. Today, using the identical scam, JEWS are tricking starving White Russian girls into lives of prostitu- tion in Israel, and elsewhere. They are being used also as breeding stock. ("60-Minutes" CBS, 1998).
The Treaty of Versailles ("Kosher Conference") was designed by the ILLUMINATI to crush Germany, weaken her resistance to Marxism and lay the foundations for World War II — twenty years later.
President Wilson brought to Paris 117 Jews and 39 Gen- tiles (mostly valets).
COUNT CHEREP-SPIRIDOVICH, Russia Under the Jews.
The Jews formed a solid ring around Woodrow Wilson. There was a time when he communicated to the country through no one but a Jew.
HENRY FORD, Sr., Volume II, The International Jew.
The heavily populated German Nation was deprived of much of its territory including vital mineral areas and the "Pol- ish Corridor" which... separated the original Duchy of Prussia from the rest of the country. Germany was deprived of its mer- chant fleet... and was saddled with an impossible load of repara- tions. As a result the defeated country was left in a precarious position which soon produced economic collapse. The Austro-
86

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Hungarian Empire, ancient outpost of Teutonic peoples and Western Civilization was destroyed ...the new state of Czecho- slovakia was given 3.5-million persons of German blood and speech....
Berlin in 1923 was a city in despair. People waited in the alley behind the Hotel Adlon ready to pounce on garbage cans... a cup of coffee cost one-million marks one day, a million and half the next, two million the day following... the German attitude (suspicion and fear) was intensified by the new power German Jews had acquired... from using funds derived from rich race- conscious Jews in other countries and by an inrush of Jews from the destroyed Austro-Hungarian Empire.
DR. JOHN O. BEATY (OSS), Iron Curtain Over America.
The devalued German mark enabled JEWS sporting pounds, francs, and dollars to "purchase" German busi- nesses, real-estate and art treasures at a fraction of their intrinsic value (as they did in the South after the U.S. Civil War). Fifteen years later Nazis repossessed those stolen trea- sures from JEWRY. Today, 1998, JEWS (with U.S. support) are successfully suing nations and individuals to recover "Nazi loot stolen from JEWS." The same loot JEWS initially extorted from a prostrate German nation.
Following WWI, the Allies extended formal apologies to Germany for the false atrocity stories. L'Infamie! The Ger- mans, it was acknowledged, had behaved as well or better than their counterparts! The United States Congressional Record (Senate, 6-15-33) places the blame for WWI directly where it belongs — the International Bankers caused the war and were its ultimate victors.
87

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
WWII (see Chapter 6: The "Holocaust") was formu- lated at the Treaty of Versailles and was a continuation of the ILLUMINATI program to enslave the nations of the world by placing them under mountains of usurious debt.
Direct intervention with the total military potential of America was essential if the war (WWII) was not to terminate in a Western victory (Germany) over Asiatic Marxist Russia... and result in the creation of a Culture-Nation-State-People- Race unity of the West.
FRANCIS PARKER YOCKEY, Imperium.
To one who knows something of the facts of the world and knows also the main details of the American surrender of secu- rity and principles at Teheran, Yalta, and Potsdam ...three ghastly purposes come into clear focus:
1) As early as 1937 (Roosevelt's cabal) determined upon war against Germany for no formulated purpose beyond pleasing the dominant Eastern European element... in the National Democratic Party and "holding those votes," as Elliot Roosevelt put it ...to gratify the President's vanity of a third term in office. 2) The powerful Eastern European element, dominant in the inner circles of the Democratic Party, regarded with complete equanimity ...even with enthusiasm, the killing of as many as possible of the Khazar-hated race of Aryans.
3) Our alien dominated government fought the war for the annihilation of Germany, the historic bulwark of Christian Europe... In 1937-1938 the German government made a "sin- cere effort to improve relations with the United States only to be rebuffed.” Germany's appeals for negotiation ...were witheld from the public until ferreted out by the House Committee on Un-American Activities... more than 10-years after the facts were so criminally suppressed.
DR. JOHN O. BEATY, Iron Curtain Over America.
88

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Our brief review of these historic DEFEATS reveals they were directed by a force more powerful by far than the Aryan states actually engaged in fighting. President Wilson said, "there is a power somewhere so organized, so subtle, so watchful, so interlocked, so complete, so pervasive..." that one can detect that Satanic power only through the similarity of its methods, the cohesiveness of its actions, its horrifying RESULTS. JEWRY infiltrated the most sensitive areas of power and trust in ALL Western Nations, while secretly swearing loyalty only to JEWRY. Aryans call this treason. But JEWS regard such accusations as "anti-Semitic," viewing Aryans as cattle trespassing on their World. President Wil- son, the United States of America, and Mankind learned these facts too late. Following WWI the ILLUMINATI failed in its bid to establish a League of Nations because the United States Congress refused to surrender sovereignty. Ruf- fled but determined U.S. members of the ILLUMINATI met in Paris to discuss again means of advancing One World Government. Participants were: Jacob Schiff, JEW (Kuhn- Loeb & Co., Rothschild agenteur); Bernard Baruch, JEW, "Prince of the Kahilla" (who had garnered millions speculat- ing in copper — from which shell-casings are made); Walter Lippman, JEW, (savant/writer); Col. E. Mandel House, JEW (White House-Treasury-Wall Street agent); John D. Rock- efeller, JEW; and goy collaborators: Averell Harriman, Chris- tian Herter, and John Foster Dulles. Present in spirit was the gunrunner J.P Morgan, Rothschild agenteur. All had prof- ited monetarily from WWI and all, for the same golden rea- sons, were instrumental in the creation of WWII. None of
89

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
them ever served active duty in the military. The military served them.
They expected to further advance ILLUMINATI con- trol over the United States. Out of that Paris meeting the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) was born. At the same time, in England, The Royal Institute of International Affairs was organized by a similar cabal. Both organization reported to the KEHILLA: the board of directors of the ILLUMINATI. The Rockefeller Institute is a subsidiary of the CFR. The Rockefellers, of JEW descent, merged their Chase bank with Warburg's (JEW) Manhattan Bank, and placed a subsidiary of Chase-Manhattan on Karl Marx Square in Moscow to finance the so-called "Cold War," even as we fought no-win wars in Korea and Viet Nam.
My ancestors may have been Jewish. We're really not sure.
NELSON ROCKEFELLER, Vice President, USA, TIME 10-19-70, (Nelson, married to Aryan "Happy" Rockefeller, died of apoplexy while cavorting in bed with his Jewish secre- tary).
Steven Birmingham's book, The Grandees: America's Sephardic Elite (Harper & Row) confirms Rockefeller's Jew- ish heritage.
In 1973 David Rockefeller formed the Trilateral Com- mission (TRI), he appointed Zbigniew Brzezinski, security advisor to President Jimmy Carter, to direct it. For many years David Rockefeller chaired both groups (CFR/TRI).
90

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The Bilderbergers, "The Fourth Reich of the Rich," is the European equivalent of the CFR; although its member- ship is more restricted, more powerful, and maintains a more exclusive social tone. Its meetings, usually held at isolated estates, are ultra-secret and protected by heavily armed ground and air forces. Elite members of the CFR/TRI/ BILDERBERGERS share inter-linking memberships. Re- cently, Bilderbergers achieved the "unification of Europe." Not a united Aryan nation as Charlemagne, Frederick, Napo- leon, and Hitler wanted it — but unification through a sin- gle currency. Now Europe is totally enslaved to USURY and unable to rebel and challenge INTERNATIONAL JEWRY as Germany did in 1933.
The United Nations was concocted by the ILLUMI- NATI following WWII. Forty members of the U.S. delega- tion to the United Nations Conference, held in San Francisco, were members of the CFR, they included: Alger Hiss, chief author of the U.N. Charter which guaranteed that the Security Council (the UN's most important body) would have a Marxist majority; Dean Acheson (Yale, Demo- crat), later U.S. Secretary of State vowed, after Hiss was con- victed of perjury, "I will never turn my back on Alger Hiss!" (Soviet files confirm Hiss was a Soviet agent); Owen Latti- more, and Philip Jessup, branded by the U.S. Senate as "tools of the Soviet"; Harry Dexter White (Weiss), JEW, the driv- ing force behind the Bretton Woods Agreements, which cre- ated the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and theWorld
91

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Bank, whose investments are insured by U.S. tax-dollars. White was exposed later as a Soviet spy.
DIRECT QUOTES FROM THE CFR ANNUAL REPORT 1980:
The Purpose of the Council on Foreign Relations is:
1) Break new ground in the consideration of International issues.
2) Help shape American foreign policy in a constructive nonpartisan manner.
3) Provide continuing leadership for the conduct of foreign affairs.
4) The Council is an educational institution and a unique forum bringing together leaders from the academic, public, and private worlds.
It is the Council's tradition that statements of the speak- ers will not be attributed to them in public media or forums.
Council meetings shall generally be NOT OPEN to the public or media... (however it) would be legitimate for govern- ment officials to report to his colleagues what he learned at the meeting... or a lawyer may give a memo to his partner, or a cor- porate officer to another corporate officer. It would not be in compliance however for any meeting participant to publish a speaker's statements in the newspaper, repeat it on TV or radio... a meeting participant is forbidden to transmit any Council statement to a newspaper reporter or other person who is likely to publish it in a public medium.
The Council has no affiliation with the U.S. Government.
92

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Paradoxically, the CFR Report acknowledges that 12% of its 2,164 members ARE U.S. government officials! That means a minimum 260 members, according to this secret organization, hold important positions within the U.S. gov- ernment! 70% of the membership are from theWashington, D.C./New York City/Boston axis. Most are Marxist indoctri- nated: Ivy League, London School of Economics, George- town University, Southern Illinois U., etc.
Since WWII almost every Secretary of State has been a CFR/TRI member. The majority were JEWS — including Clinton appointee Madeleine Albright. Recent Secretary of Defense appointments include Harold Brown; James Schlesinger; Cap Weinberger; Henry Kissinger; William Cohen, all JEWS, all CFR/TRI members. None ever wore a U.S. military uniform. All, after their government stints, found employment with the ILLUMINATI, usually on Wall Street. Remember, practicing JEWS make cabalistic KOL NIDRE VOWS to support the TORAH; Marrano JEWS swear to protect the KHAZAR PEOPLE. This explains the breach in U.S. security.
Former CFR president Winston Lord, an advisor to the Clinton White House, married to a Chinese, remarked: "The Trilateralists don't rule the World — the CFR does that."
CFR Case Study #76 (1959) states:
The United States must strive to build a new International Order... including states labeling themselves Socialist. The social experiment in China under Chairman Mao's leadership is
93

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
one of the most important and successful in human history. DAVID ROCKEFELLER, JEW, Chairman CFR/TRI.
The U.S Senate estimates that about 65-million Chi- nese were slaughtered under Chairman Mao's leadership in what has proven to be a hideously failed social experiment rejected even by Mao's closest admirers.
CFR members, holding many of the highest positions in the United States government, are appointed — not elected — to their positions of trust by the President. The "invisible government" from which they emerge, the CFR seeks to abandon American sovereignty. The loyalty of the CFR, whose Chairman today is David Gelb, JEW, is not to the U.S. Constitution but to the TALMUD.
It is in the American interest to put an end to Nationhood. WALT ROSTOW, JEW, CFR/TRI, advisor to Pres. Kennedy, and Johnson, helped mastermind Viet Nam "police action."
Our national purpose should be to abandon our nationality.
KINGMAN BREWSTER, CFR, former President, Yale Uni- versity, in CFR Quarterly Foreign Affairs.
De Gaulle could not understand America's conviction of the obsolescence of the nation-state.
HENRY KISSINGER, JEW, CFR/TRI, The White House Years.
94

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
While the CFR/TRI goals are ILLUMINATI objectives — and there is at the highest level interlinkage of member- ship — they have differing, sometimes overlapping, strate- gies. The CFR appears to be primarily concerned with infiltrating the U.S. government. There they influence the policies of the various departments and agencies coordinat- ing them with ILLUMINATI Expectations. The TRI appears directed toward Internationalizing (Sovietizing) the businesses and industries of the Americas, Europe, and the Pacific Rim (hence the name "Trilateral").
The TRI has about 300 members, 87 from the United States: the largest segment represents the banking commu- nity.
QUESTION/ANSWER BOOKLET Published by the Trilateral Commission
The TRI is a non-governmental policy-oriented discussion group... not only on issues among these (three) regions but in a global framework as well.
Zbigniew Brezezinski was very important to the formation of the Commission... and is its major intellectual dynamo. Jimmy Carter was a member from 1973 until his election to the U.S. Presidency when he left in accordance with Commission rules barring members from the National Administration.
The TRI is an independent organization. It is not part of the U.S Government (Please see CFR/TRI Chart, index) or of the United Nations. It has no formal ties with the CFR or Brookings Institute, though a considerable number of TRI members are also involved with one or more organizations of this sort. [See ILLUMINATI graph page 105 — JvB]
95

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
The TRI is absolutely not secret. The only off-the-record aspect of the TRI is its meetings.
The TRI welcomes coverage of its activities.
Allegations that the TRI is trying to establish One World Government are totally false... there have been no Commission reports or even a single instance in Commission discussions where any member or task force author proposed that our National Government be dissolved and a World Government created.
The TRI does not lobby for particular legislation or candi- dates.
Much of the notion that the TRI is a conspiracy rests on the fact that so many members of the Carter Administration, including the President, were former members of the Commis- sion. At first glance this does seem a strange coincidence, but... these facts do not indicate control of the U.S. Government by the Commission.
In complete contradiction to the TRI Question/Answer Booklet are some statements by the "intellectual dynamo" now teaching at Georgetown U., Zibby Brzezinsky, to wit:
The fiction of national sovereignty... is no longer compatible with reality.
Yet, though Stalinism may have been a needless tragedy for both the Russian people and Communism as an ideal... for the world at large Stalinism was a blessing in disguise.
Marxism is simultaneously a victory of the external active man over the inner passive man, and a victory of Reason over Belief.
Marxism theory is this century's most influential system of thought.
96

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
America is undergoing a new revolution ...that unmasks its obsolescence.
Deliberate management of America's future will become widespread with the planner eventually displacing the law- yer as the key social legislator and manipulator.
By the year 2000 (in the U.S.A.) it will be accepted that Robespierre and Lenin were mild reformers.
ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI, CFR/TRI, U.S. Security Advisor, from his book Between Two Ages.
The brochures issued for public consumption by the CFR/TRI quite obviously are prevarications that don't reflect the opinions expressed elsewhere by its leadership.
What the Trilateralists truly intend is the creation of a World-wide economic power superior to the political govern- ments of the nation-states involved.... As managers and creators of the system they will rule the future. Most of our foreign aid ...is being used to create an International Economy managed and controlled through the mechanism of International con- glomerate manufacturing and business enterprise. Populations are treated as nothing more than producing economic groups. Freedom (Political, Spiritual, Economic) is denied any impor- tance in the Trilateralist construction of the next century. BARRY GOLDWATER, JEW, U.S. Senator, With No Apolo- gies.
I am convinced that the CFR together with... associated tax-exempt organizations is the invisible government which sets the major policies of the federal government... I am convinced that the objective of this invisible government is to convert America into a socialist state and then make it a unit in a one-
97

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
world socialist system.
DAN SMOOT, Prof. Harvard, FBI, The Invisible Government.
International Money Power is the most dangerous conspir- acy against the freedom of men the world has ever know. FREDERICK SODDY, Professor, Oxford, Nobel Laureate, F.R.S.
The distinguished Dr. Medford Evans said, "Anthony Sutton's Western Technology and Soviet Economic Development is possibly the most important book since the Bible." The author adds that Sutton's, Trilateralists Over Washington, and all his books, are required reading for those who understand the evil influences at work destroying Western Culture. These books relate to the Cold War period of U.S./USSR history but they are extremely cogent today. Incredibly, many of those who implemented ILLUMINATI policy during that period enjoy distinguished positions, Citations of Merit, honorable retirement, or burial in Arlington Cemetery. Fol- lowing are a FEW of Dr. Sutton's research observations (Western Technology and Soviet Economic Development):
The Soviets have the largest iron and steel plant in the world. It was built by McKee Corp., it is a copy of the U.S. Steel plant in Gary, Indiana. All Soviet iron and steel technol- ogy comes from the U.S., and its allies.
The Soviets have the largest tube and pipe mill in Europe — one million tons a year. The equipment is Salem, Aetna, Standard... If you know anyone in the space business ask them how many miles of tubing goes into a missile.
The standard Soviet truck used in Viet Nam and the Mid- East is manufactured at ZIL-130 Plant, which was built by A. J.
98

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Brandt Co., Detroit, MI. The Soviet military has over 300,000 trucks all manufactured in plants built by the USA. (“Hanoi” Jane Fonda was photographed waving a Cong flag in one of those vehicles).
The USSR has the largest merchant marine in the world, about 6,000 ships: two-thirds were built outside the USSR. 80% of the engines for these ships were built outside the USSR. None are of Soviet design. Those built inside the Soviet are built with USA technological assistance.
About 100 ships were used on the Hanoi Run to carry Soviet weapons and supplies to the North Vietnamese. NONE of the main engines in these ships was manufactured by the Soviets. All ship building tech comes from the USA or our allies.
During the Viet Nam War ("police action") the Johnson Administration sent equipment and technological assistance to the Soviets that more than doubled their automobile output.
(From 1917 onwards) there was a pervasive, powerful, and not clearly identifiable force in the West making for the contin- uance of transfers. Surely the political power and influence of the Soviets was not sufficient alone to bring about such favor- able (to the USSR) Western policies.... indeed such policies seem incomprehensible IF the West's objective is to survive as an alliance of independent non-Communist nations.
DR. ANTHONY C. SUTTON, Hoover Inst., Stanford , Univ.
U.S.A. ABETS COMMUNISM:
Following WWII, the USA (CFR) double-crossed America's long-time ally Chiang Kai-shek, ABETTING Mao Tse-tung's Communist take-over of mainland China (1950) while vowing to defend Formosa against Mao. Within a year Americans were fighting and dying in Korea, and later in Viet Nam, allegedly to PREVENT Communist
99

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
expansion in Asia! Meanwhile, the FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM financed the Soviet war machine and the CFR/ TRI modernized and expanded it. TREASON!
The ILLUMINATI got us into "no-win" wars in Korea and Viet Nam for two reasons: MONEY, and expectations that the U.S. military would suffer great loss of life — fomenting despair and revolution on Main Street USA. When the U.S. military began to WIN those wars the MASS-MEDIA screamed L'INFAMIE. JEW led cannaille, emerging like rats from the piles and alleyways, condemned alleged U.S. military "atrocities," slandered our officers and men, literally spit on veterans, and succeeded in brainwash- ing Boobus Americanus and a gutless Congress into accepting defeat. (General Douglas MacArthur complained that North Korean generals received his directives, from a spy-ridden Pentagon, before he did). TREASON!
Treason doth never prosper. What’s the reason? For when it doth prosper none dare call it TREASON.
LORD HARRINGTON.
Tob shebbe goyim harog! TALMUD: Sanhedrin.
Give me the power to issue and control the money of a nation and I care not who makes its laws.
ANSELM MAYER ROTHSCHILD.
The foregoing account reveals the merest thread in a tapestry of evil. Reoccurring aspects of ILLUMINATI his- tory is MONEY MANIPULATION; reliance on l'INFA-
100

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
MIE — slander and false witness; and SILENCING those who could testify against them:
In 1780 France, the Royal Family, government leaders, and goy leaders of the Revolution were murdered TO SILENCE THEM.
Napoleon, incarcerated incommunicado on St. Helena Isle, was poisoned TO SILENCE HIM.
In 1918 Russia, the Royal Family members of the court, and government, were slandered and murdered TO SILENCE THEM. (Because JEWS slaughtered, or drove out, the entire Aryan cultural stratum which included scien- tists, engineers, and other professionals, the Soviet was never more than a paper-tiger until they captured Nazis scientists; and obtained A-Bomb secrets, and technology, equipment and money from the ILLUMINATI).
President Woodrow Wilson, Democrat, died broken in mind and spirit, effectively SILENCED by Sam Untermeyer (JEW) who had confiscated, early in Wilson's administra- tion, the President's indiscreet love letters to Mrs. Peck.
Nazi leadership was slandered, falsely accused; prose- cuted by JEWS in American uniforms; condemned by kan- garoo courts for ex post facto crimes, then (on the HIGH JEWISH HOLY DAYS) hanged, TO SILENCE THEM. Other German officers were imprisoned from 15-years to life; upon release many were murdered. 10 May 1941, six months before Pearl Harbor, Rudolph Hess, Anglophile, sec- ond in command to Hitler, parachuted from his Messer- schmitt 109 over Scotland (his first jump), in a last minute
101

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
effort to arrange peace between the warring states. Hess was clapped into Spandau prison without trial and held incom- municado for 46-years (21-years in solitary confinement). 17 August 1987, age 93, shortly before his announced release, Hess was murdered. Officially, he committed suicide! (Men- achim Begin, ISRAELI terrorist, warned U.S. Pres. Jimmy "Rabbit" Carter, Democrat, CFR/TRI, that Hess must not leave Spandau alive). The Top Secret Hess Files will not be released totally until 2027 A.D.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Democrat, suddenly broken in health, died at age 63 before his war to save the world for Communism ended. He fell (or was pushed) headfirst into the embers of a fireplace inWarm Springs, Ga., conveniently SILENCING HIM, and providing him, on his trip to Hell, a taste of Hamburg and Dresden. The ILLUMINATI could not afford to have Congress question FDR (dead or alive). He is buried beneath a four inch thick bronze plate at Hyde Park, N.Y. His autopsy report never released.
Lee Harvey Oswald, John F. Kennedy's alleged assassin, predictably was murdered by a JEW (Jack Ruby), thus SILENCING crucial testimony that would have exposed the real murderer(s) whom Ruby (Rubinstein) had been hired to protect.
Oswald, McFadden, Long, Patton, Forrestal, Isador Fisch, JEW ("friend" of Bruno Hauptmann), and many other participants in the momentous events of an EVIL ERA were SILENCED — permanently. Leaving ciphers in West-
102

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ern History; to be filled in by subjectively motivated "histori- ans". SILENCE IS GOLDEN!
From the foregoing historical record we can now deduce:
THE ILLUMINATI INTENDS TO REPLACE WESTERN CIVILIZATION WITH ONE WORLD ILLUMINATI GOVERNMENT
This will be achieved through the power of MONEY which is solely in JEW hands. The Order of Battle is as fol- lows:
Objectives
1) Destroy Monarchy, Nationalism, Patriotism. 2) Create Democracies (Marxist Governments). 3) Miscegenate the races.
4) Create One World Religion: Judaism.
5) Abandon national boundaries
6) Destroy the nations' military.
7) Destroy the culture-bearing stratum. 8) Control the machinery of government.
Strategies
1) Capture the monetary system.
103

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
2) Capture the mass-media.
3) Create wars, debt, bankruptcies, high taxes. 4) Distort language, moral code, ethics, mores. 5) Confiscate private weapons.
6) Control Education, re-write history.
7) Open Mexican border.
8) Infiltrate government, unions, industry.
Tactics
1) Promote interracial integration.
2) Promote Marxism, Freudianism, Boasism.
3) Promote Democracy, anarchy, racial unrest.
4) Slander: national heroes, racial pride, tradition.
5) Employ blackmail, slander, extortion, bribes, murder.
6) Support all dissident factions. Honor the dishonor- able.
7) Use ADL, IRS, ACLU, CIA, ATF to punish Aryan patriots.
8) LIE, spread misinformation, disinformation.
Burn ye all that is in the city and slay with the edge of the sword both man and woman, young and old, and ox and sheep, and burn the city with fire and all that is therein.
JOSHUA 7:21.
104

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
 105

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Marxism is the modern form of JEWISH Prophecy. REINHOLD NIEBUHR, in a warmly received speech before the Jewish Institute of Religion, Waldorf Astoria, NYC.
I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the Office of the President of the United States and will do to the best of my ability to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States of America.
U.S. CONSTITUTION, Article II, Section 1., Clause 7.
President Bill Clinton, with an Ivy League-Rhodes Scholar-Marxist indoctrinated mind, and subject to both blackmail and extortion, appointed many JEWS/CFR/TRI to sensitive positions in the UNITED STATES GOVERN- MENT, including: SUPREME COURT JUSTICES Ruth Bader Ginsberg, and Stephen Breyer, JEWS; SECRETARY OF STATE, Madeleine K. Albright, JEW; UNDER-SECY STATE, Stuart Eizenstat, JEW; ASST. SECY. STATE, Stan- ley Roth, JEW; SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, William Cohen, JEW; SENIOR ADVISOR TO THE PRESI- DENT, Rahm Emanuel, JEW; WHITE HOUSE ATTOR- NEY, Bernie Nussbaum, JEW; CEO CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA), John Deutch, JEW (now under investigation for treason); NATIONAL SECU- RITY ADVISOR, Sandy Berger, JEW; SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, Robert Rubin, JEW; HEAD OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICAL AND SPACE ADMINIS- TRATION (NASA), Daniel E. Golden, JEW; SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATOR, Kenneth Apfel, JEW; HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, D. Glickman, JEW; and several Cabinet posts, including, Rob-
106

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ert Reich, Donna Shalala, Alice Rivlin (FED), Robert Morris ("the toe sucker"), et al — all are JEWS whose sole alle- giance, bound by the KOL NIDRE OATH, is to the Khazar tribe, and to the TALMUD, which vows the destruction of Western Civilization.
An analysis of the 4,984 of the more militant members of the Communist Party in the United States showed that 91.4% of the total were of foreign stock or were married to persons of foreign stock.
U.S. SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE, 1950
I wouldn’t be surprised if someday these Jews would not become deadly to the human race.
VOLTAIRE
107

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Chapter 4
MONEY
And there was a cry of the people...against their brethern the Jews...we have mortgaged our lands, vineyards, and houses that we might buy corn because of the dearth...and lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants...some of our daughters are brought into bondage already; neither is it in our power to redeem them for other men have our lands and our vineyards...
HOLY BIBLE: NE: 5:1,7.
Our money system is nothing better than a confidence trick... The “money power” which has been able to overshadow ostensibly responsible government is not the power of the merely ultra-rich but is nothing more or less than a new tech- nique to destroy money by adding and withdrawing figures in bank ledgers, without the slightest concern for the interests of the community or the real role money ought to perform therein...to allow it to become a source of revenue to private issuer's is to create, first, a secret and illicit arm of government and, last, a rival power strong enough to ultimately overthrow all other forms of government.
Dr. FRED SODDY, Nobelist, Wealth, Virtual Wealth & Debt.
A great industrial nation is controlled by its system of credit. Our system of credit is concentrated. The growth of the nation, therefore, and all of our activities are in the hands of a few men. We have become one of the worst ruled, one of the most completely controlled and dominated governments in the civilized world...no longer a government of free opinion...but a government by the opinion and duress of small groups of dom- ineering men.
PRESIDENT WOODROW WILSON, 1916.
108

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
THE WEST viewed the JEW as an alien living within its midst. JEWS had no State of their own, no territory. Whatever the landscape they spoke the common language. Publicly they denied a racial identity assuming the outer gar- ments, no matter how preposterous, of whatever nation in which they appeared. Adoption of Christian names, conver- sions, “nose jobs", and platform shoes were part of the cam- ouflage. JEWRY seemed to be merely a religion. Therefore, JEWRY was politically invisible to the West, and its war against the West was always subterranean, cunning and deceptive. JEWISH strategy was to infiltrate the institutions of Western Culture and destroy them. JEWRY'S primary weapon was money manipulation and USURY.
Early Popes, and Christian monarchs invoked Biblical proscriptions against the “evil and pernicious practice of usury.” Money was used strictly as a means of exchange and a storage of value backed by the honor of the State and the productive capabilities of its citizens. Nonetheless, the end result of Christian proscriptions against usury was to make JEWS the masters of European banking.
JEWS have no religious scruples regarding money where goyim are concerned. They now have the means to carry out their war of annihilation of the West. They would not sur- face as a fighting unit and openly attack their hated enemy. They remained invisible. Their strategy was to organize the entire JEWISH People into a Fifth Column whose purpose is to penetrate the West and destroy everything. This is being accomplished by exacerbating natural disputes between the
109

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Western States and influencing the results in favor of Liberal- ism as opposed to Authority; that is, materialism, free trade and usury, as opposed to Western Socialism; International- ism as opposed to Western unity. MONEY was their sword and buckler. Hate and revenge their motif.
The tactics of this Jewish warfare was employment of money. His dispersion, his materialism, his finished cosmopol- itanism, all precluded him taking part in the heroic form of combat in the field, and he was thus confined to the war of lending, or refusing to lend, of bribing, of gaining legally enforceable power over important individuals... The story of Shylock shows the dual picture of the JEW — socially cringing on the Rialto, but emerging as a lion the courtroom. FRANCIS PARKER YOCKEY, Imperium.
The dawn of the 20th Century found the ILLUMI- NATI preparing to launch a massive attack upon the West. Not in the light of open discourse, or on the battlefield, but in their usual manner: conspiratorially, from the underworld. Their strategy was to hitch America's resources, wealth and manpower to JEWISH aspirations which included destroy- ing the monarchies of Europe and creating a bogus KHAZAR/ZIONIST state in Palestine. They found their Judas Goat in Woodrow Wilson, Chancellor of Princeton University, an innocent with a vast ego, and a chink in his armor. Unwittingly He became the indispensable, unwitting pawn in the International money game.
Paul Moritz Warburg, JEW, was dispatched to the United States in 1903 to promote the establishment of a
110

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Rothschild central-bank in preparation for WWI which was then on the drawing-board. Warburg, made the Kuhn-Loeb Co., Wall Street Bankers, his base of operations. After meet- ing Wilson at a University seminar Warburg recommended Wilson to the International banking cabal. Upon further investigation, Rabbi Steven Wise; Jacob Schiff, JEW; Sam Untermyer, JEW, and other Khazar power-players agreed that Wilson would be the ILLUMINATI'S patsy in the White House.
Soon after, Wilson’s democratic presidential campaign was announced, promoted and financed by ILLUMI- NATISTS: Warburg, JEW, and his brothers, Felix, and Max (head of German intelligence and the M.M. Warburg Bank, Hamburg); Adolph Ochs, JEW (publisher, New York Times); Henry Morganthau, JEW (tycoon of Negro slum dwellings in Harlem, Manhattan); Jacob Schiff, JEW, (Pres., Kuhn- Loeb Co.); Samuel Untermyer, JEW (powerful corporate lawyer); and Eugene Meyer, JEW, (banker, and owner of the Washington Post, the newspaper your Senator reads over morning coffee); and Rothschild agenteur; and internation- alist bankers Lazard Freres; J&W Seligman; Speyer Brothers; and the Rothschilds. A few select goyim, including J.P. Mor- gan, gunrunner, were in on the deal.
To split the Republican vote, the ILLUMINATISTS financed both Teddy Roosevelt and the incumbent Howard Taft in their bids for the presidency. After Wilson won the rigged election (1912), which he attributed to his own charm and ingenuity, Warburg and his cabal put in motion their
111

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
plan to establish control of America's finances and credit. Warburg introduced Col. Edward Mandell House, JEW, to the President. House became Wilson's alter-ego, confidant and messenger between the Oval Office and Wall Street. In his novel Philip Dru, House makes it perfectly clear that his idea of good government is One World Usurocracy. Legisla- tors who didn't share his views were kept from meeting with the President. By manipulating Wilson, bribing members of Congress, and engaging in the most deceitful lobbying cam- paign in U.S. history, Warburg got what he wanted. During the Christmas Holidays (23 December 1913), when much of the opposition was absent, the U.S. Congress enacted the Federal Reserve Act SELLING AMERICA'S MONETARY SYSTEM to the International Bankers, and dooming Chris- tendom to WWI and WWII; the “Cold War” and all of our “no win” wars.
This Act establishes the most gigantic trust on earth. When the President signs this bill the invisible government by the Monetary Power will be legalized...the worst legislative crime of the ages is perpetrated by this banking and currency bill. The caucus and party bosses have again operated and prevented the people from getting the benefit of their own government. CHARLES LINDBERGH, Sr., U.S. Congress.
Soon thereafter, Sam Untermeyer, JEW, came into pos- session of Wilson’s indiscreet love letters to Mrs. Peck, his mistress, and wife of a friend. The inner circle referred to the President as “Peck's bad boy.” Wilson did what he was told to do when he was told to do it, leading to the appointment
112

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
of Louis Denmitz Brandies, JEW, Zionist, to the U.S. Supreme Court; and pushing America into WorldWar I.
“Money is the worst of all contraband” said William Jen- nings Bryan, U.S. Secy. State. And our loans to the Allies dur- ing the two and a half years before our entry into the WWI were more accurately acts of aggression than our belated ship- ments of troops in 1917, after Wilson's declaration of war had given an air of legality to the farce.
EUSTACE MULLINS, “The Federal Reserve Conspiracy.”
All wars are economic in their origin.
BERNARD BARUCH, JEW, before Nye Committee, 9-13-37.
Constitutionality of the FEDERAL RESERVE ACT has never been adjudicated although it clearly is unconstitu- tional.
ARTICLE I, SEC. 8, CLAUSE 5 U.S. CONSTITU- TION: The Congress shall have the power to coin money, regu- late the value thereof and of foreign coin, and to fix the standards of weights and measures.
The Clause has never been amended. One may then logically ask: Can Congress legally delegate its Constitutional authority?
SHECHTER POULTRY v. U.S.A. (29 US 495)(55 US 837.842 (1935):
2) Congress can not abdicate or transfer to others its legis- lative functions...
113

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
3) Congress cannot constitutionally delegate its legislative authority to trade or industrial associations or groups so as to empower them to enact laws...
4) Congress cannot delegate legislative powers to the Presi- dent...
The Chief Justice stated: The Constitution established a national government with powers deemed to be adequate, as they have proven to be, both in war and in peace, but these powers of national government are limited by the constitutional grants. Those who act under these grants are not at liberty to transcend the imposed limits because they believe that more or different power is necessary. Such assertions of extraconstitu- tional authority were anticipated and precluded by the explicit terms of the Tenth Amendment: The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States and to the People.
ALGONQUIN SNC, Inc. v. FEDERAL ENERGY ADMINISTRATION 518 Fed 2nd 1051 (1975):
Conclusion: Neither the term “national security” nor “emergency” is a talisman, the thaumaturgic invocation of which should ipso facto suspend the normal checks and bal- ances on each branch of government...If our system is to survive we must respond to the most difficult of problems in a manner consistent with the limitations placed upon Congress, the Presi- dent, and the Courts, by our Constitution and our Laws. CONGRESS MAY NOT ABDICATE OR TRANSFER TO OTHERS ITS ESSENTIAL LEGISLATIVE FUNCTIONS.
ART. I, SEC. 10, CLAUSE 1, U.S. CONSTITUTION:
No State...shall make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts...
THE U.S. CONSTITUTIONAL INTERPRETER:
If a Law is passed counter to the Constitution it is as though that Law had not been passed.
114

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
If Congress may not transfer to others its legislative functions, one might logically ask: Is the FED a Congres- sional agency? The answer is emphatically stated below!
LEWIS v. U.S. (680 F2d 1239 — July 1982):
Federal Reserve Banks under the Federal GovernmentTort Claims Act are NOT Federal Government instrumentalities, but are independent, privately owned, locally controlled organi- zations.
The critical factor for determining whether an agency is a Federal agency is the existence of Federal Government con- trol over the “detailed physical performance” and “day by day” operations of that entity.
The Supreme Court ruled (above) that Congress may NOT delegate its legislative functions. Does the FED legis- late?
Legislate — to make or enact laws.
Laws — rules of action established by custom or laid down and enforced by sovereign authority.
Rule — to regulate, bring under force of Law.
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM REGULATION “Q": does indeed legislate in that it enacts maximum interest rates that may be paid to depositors by member banks on time and demand deposits.
The U.S. Constitution gives only Congress this power (above). Regulation “Q” is also a violation of U.S. Anti-Trust Laws, prohibiting the conspiratorial fixing of fees, rates and
115

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
commissions — punishable by fines and imprisonment. Unless you're an International Banker.
One must conjecture why Congress does not repeal the Federal Reserve Act. It has that right — indeed the DUTY. Why does the Judiciary not rule on the Act's clear-cut unconstitutionality? The answer is obvious. Under a demo- cratic form of government, rather than the Republic our Fore Fathers designed, second-rate Congressmen are elected by mob and media. Federal judges, appointed for life, are self- serving, venal, subject to special interest groups and bribery. They adore living in Hollywood-on- the-Potomac, their fat- cat salaries, the perks, the pomp and splendor, the easy pick- ings. They fear the power of the ILLUMINATI purse. They fear the FED, the ADL, the IRS and what happens to patri- ots. They fear MARXISM/LIBERALISM/JEWRY. They fear the MEDIA. They love their jobs and don't want to lose them. Where else can sycophants and cowards make so much loot and enjoy so much prestige? Above all else Congressmen love to spend your money (“tax, tax, tax; spend, spend, spend; elect, elect, elect!” Harry Hopkins’ advice to FDR’s New Dealers). The FED, of course, grows irritable when Congress doesn't borrow and spend. Ergo, Congress’ ploy is to profit by the scam while keeping constituents ignorant in La-La-Land.
Misunderstandings about money have been and continue to be intentional. They derive neither from the nature of money nor from any stupidity of the public...the International Usuroc- racy aims at preserving intact the public's ignorance of the
116

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Usurocratic System and its workings...
EZRA POUND (placed naked in a cage by JEWS who called HIM insane).
Let's take a closer look at the Federal Reserve System your elected representatives are too ignorant, or too fright- ened to do anything about.
Let me issue and control a nation's money and I care not who makes its Laws.
ANSELM MEYER ROTHSCHILD.
Salient Facts About the Federal Reserve System (FED): The FED is not a United States Government agency. It is a private stock company (corporation) patterned after the Bank of England, and other Rothschild central banks. The FED, established by Congress, is privately controlled; its notes are legal tender but are debts of the U.S. government, owed to the Bankers. Commercial paper and government securities are used as fractional reserves to create debt credit. The currency in your wallet represents government debt- credit which is satisfied by your income taxes; you also pay income taxes on the interest your debt-money earns if invested. In sum:
1. The FED is a privately owned corporation. The word “Federal” is as meaningless, as 'Federal' Tire Company.
2. The FED operates independently of the Legislative, Executive and Judicial Branches of the U.S. government.
117

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
3. The FED's books have never been independently audited. It refuses U.S. government audit (GAO).
4. The FED is NOT an agency of the U.S. government, although it was created by Congress, and theoretically can be abolished by Congress. It owns personal property and real- estate. Its employees do not draw U.S. Government pay- checks.
5. The U.S. President, with approval of the Senate, appoints the FED Board of Governors. The majority of them are Wall Street denizens with ILLUMINATI connec- tions. Many are CFR/TRI members. After all, the FED was designed by bankers for bankers.
6. After deducting operating expenses (?) the FED returns what it considers surplus earnings (?) to the U.S. Treasury.
7. FED member banks (Chase-Manhattan for example) hold billions of dollars in U.S. Securities (for which they paid nothing), as reserves for loans on which they charge fullinterest. They return NO profits to the U.S. Treasury.
8. Member banks use these fractional reserves to extend credit, from 10 to 30 times the amount of the reserves.
9. Owners of FED Class-A stock have never been revealed. Educated guesses indicate that the following are the largest stockholders: The House of Rothschild, JEWS; Lazar Freres Bank of Paris, JEWS; The Schiff family, Kuhn-Loeb Co., JEWS (U.S. Vice President Al Gore’s blonde daughter recently married a Schiff. They “sell” more than the Lincoln
118

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
bedroom at White House fund raisers); The Lehmann fam- ily, JEWS; The Rockefellers; Israel Seif, London, JEWS; The Bank of England, JEWS, etc.
10. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is the System's most important policy making body. Com- posed of the seven members of the Board of Governors, and four member bank presidents, plus the President of the New York FED Bank, FOMC buys and sells government securi- ties, and oversees the System's foreign exchange. FOMC determines the discount rate charged member banks thereby determining interest rates you pay your lender.
11. Because changes in interest rates, and the amount of money placed in circulation, have profound affects upon the economy, advance notice (leaks) of forthcoming changes in FED policy would be of tremendous advantage to investors. FED advance policies are, therefore, a closely guarded secret. But is absolute security maintained? Do you believe in the Tooth Fairy? Or do members of the Board of Governors, who serve at the ILLUMINATI'S pleasure, perform as con- duits of highly sensitive information? No wonder the skyline of every major city is dominated by banking houses. Since Greed has replaced Honor, Money buys anything — Presi- dents and Prime Ministers, Popes and prelates, Congressmen and Judges.
12. The FED is one of many ILLUMINATI central- banking systems embedded like fat leeches inWorld popula- tion streams.
119

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
13. At this writing the United States (We the People) are over Six Trillion Dollars in debt. Men in debt labor for oth- ers.
Henry Ford thinks it's stupid and so do I, that for the loan of (its) own money... the United States should be compelled to pay...interest. People who will not turn a shovel of dirt nor con- tribute a pound of material will collect more money from the United States than all the people who supply all the material and do all the work...why must we pay interest to money-bro- kers for the use of our own money!
THOMAS A. EDISON, re Congress borrowing from FED.
There is no dispute about the fact that our economy is built by bankers lending money that they do not possess, never have possessed, and never will possess, on the calculation that they will not be asked for that money in notes, coin or gold... CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS, “The Breakdown of Money.”
We now see that while the basic purpose of money is a means of exchange and a storage of value, the ILLUMINATI distorted that original purpose. Money has become a private MONOPOLY, a COMMODITY, and a means of COER- CION. Through the FED’s ability to issue our nation's cur- rency as DEBT; to expand or contract the amount of money in circulation (M-1) at will; and to raise or lower interest rates at will, it creates so-called business cycles (boom-bust periods) allowing its masters, ILLUMINATI, to control the vitality of World nation-states and, when necessary, punish them for insubordination (Germany, Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), Austria, Iraq, Libya, and South Africa for example).
120

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
THE FED: UNLAWFUL AND TREASONOUS ACTIVITY — AMERICA’S MONEY BORROWED INTO EXISTENCE
When Congress needs money it borrows from the FED. The loans must be paid back — principal plus interest — by the tax-payers. However, no debt-free money is created with which to pay the interest which must be paid out of the money-supply (M-1) which is debt-money! This is similar to paying off interest on your Visa Credit Card account, by using your Master Card. It's the Old Testament trick of rob- bing Peter to pay Paul. Payment of principal and interest withdraws money from circulation creating a money short- age. Additional money must be borrowed into circulation with which to pay the interest, creating additional debt.
121

Year Borrowed
Original Debt at Year's
Start
$100.00 $6.00
106.00 6.36 " 112.36 6.74 " 119.10 7.15 " 126.25 7.57 "
1,737.75 104.25 "
KILL THE BEST GENTILES
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM SCAM
Borrowing to Pay 6% Simple Interest on Original $100 Debt*
Principal ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 $100.00 2 "
3 "
4 "
5 " 50** "
$100.00
* At no time can the debt be paid off with the money in circulation!
** When the debt (in the above hypothetical) is carried to the 50th year, all the money in circulation is insufficient to pay interest alone much less the principal.
Under the FED it is mathematically impossible for American citizens to satisfy the enormous debt owed the International Banking cartel. Admittedly, the FED pays to the U.S. Treasury a pittance of its annual profit but that doesn’t mitigate against the scam.
Earnings on U.S. Government securities held by the 12 Banks of the FED amounted in 1972 to $3,771,209,607. These earnings provided the bulk of System income for the year — $3,792,334,523 ...$3,231 million was paid into the U.S. Treasury last year as “interest on Federal Reserve notes.”
122
Interest Due Year's
Money In Circulation
End
(M-1)

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
FED BOARD OF GOVERNORS, to Senator Alan Cranston, 6-20-73.
Compound Interest: nothing more surely typifies JEW- ISHNESS than compound interest. Albert Einstein, JEW, said whoever invented the formula was a genius. Charles Lindbergh, Sr., Thomas Edison, and all who detest USURY say “compound interest is Satanical.” For example, when you contract for a $40,000 home mortgage payable in 30-years at 15% interest. At the end of the term you will have paid the bank $182,080.80 P&I. All the banker does is make a ledger entry. If you must sell your home before term (Americans move every 7-years on the average) you find there is little equity to show for your monthly mortgage payments. It takes 24-years to pay-off just one-half the principal! Most of your money in the early years goes toward interest (interest deduc- tions allowed are negligible). Upon purchasing another home you must commence new mortgage payments all over again. If you are unlucky and can’t meet the payments your friendly banker forecloses and walks away with your down-payment and whatever else he can filch.
Fractional Reserve System — Bankers’ Gravy Train
The Federal Reserve Board of Governors (FBG) deter- mines the reserve requirement for member banks — thus determining the amount of money placed in circulation. Suppose a bank has Reserve Deposit Credits of $10,000. If the Reserve Ratio is 15% it can create loans totaling $56,666! If the Reserve Ratio is 20% it can create loans total-
123

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
ing $40,000 (Remember pawnshop dealer Amschel Mayer Bauer, JEW, Frankfort, Germany).
Here is how the theft works:
1) When Rockefeller's Chase-Manhattan Bank requires $5-million currency, it simply enters a credit of $5-million to the U.S. Treasury.
2) The treasury delivers government securities in that amount to the bank. The bank pays for them with a check drawn on credit based on the new securities just delivered from the treasury!
3) Using these new securities (or commercial paper) Chase- Manhattan orders the currency from the New York FED which in turn orders the Bureau of Printing and Engraving to print the new currency.
4) Upon completing the transaction — which cost the bank not one penny — Chase-Manhattan can advance to its customers up to $45- million (10% Reserve Ratio) in new credit at the prevailing interest rates. All of this new credit is created out of thin air!
The banks — commercial banks and Federal Reserve — create all the money of this nation, and the nation and its peo- ple pay interest on every dollar of that newly created money. Which means that private banks exercise unconstitutionally, immorally, and ridiculously the power to tax the people. For every newly created dollar dilutes to some extent the value of every other dollar already in circulation.
JERRY VOORHIS, U.S. Congress, CA-D., 1946.
124

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
No one has the right to be a moneylender save him who has it to lend.
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
PATMAN: Mr. Eccles, how do you get the money to buy those two billions of government securities?
ECCLES: We created it.
PATMAN: Out of what?
ECCLES: Out of our right to issue credit money.
HOUSE BANKING AND CURRENCY COMMITTEE hearing, 1941.
It is the influx of this fiat money that causes the Ameri- can citizen's hard-earned cash to lose its purchasing power. That is inflation. That is usury. That is how TALMUDIC KHAZARS have debased U.S. currency.
When a bank makes a loan it simply adds to the borrower's deposit account in the bank...The money is not taken from anyone else's deposit; it was not previously paid into the bank by anyone. It's new money, created by the bank for the use of the borrower.
SEC'Y TREASURY ANDERSON, “U.S. News & WR", 8-31- 59.
In purchasing offerings of Government bonds the banking system as a whole creates new money, or bank deposits. When the banks buy a billion dollars of Government bonds as they are offered...the banks credit the deposit account of the Treasury with a billion dollars. They debit their Government bond account a billion dollars, or they actually create, by a bookkeep- ing entry, a billion dollars.
MARRINER ECCLES, Chairman Board of Governors, FED, 1935.
125

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
The government should create, issue and circulate all cur- rency and credit needed to satisfy the spending power of Gov- ernment and the buying power of consumers. The privilege of creating and issuing money is the supreme prerogative of Gov- ernment.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
Can anything be more absurd than that a nation should apply to an individual (Rothschild) to maintain its credit, and with its credit its existence as an empire, and its comfort as a people...
BENJAMIN DISRAELI, JEW, Prime Minister, Great Britain.
The United Nations Rip-Off: Henry Morganthau, JEW, Secretary of the Treasury under FDR ("Some of my best friends are Communists") appointed his protege Harry Dex- ter White (Weiss), JEW, Under- Secretary of the Treasury. White, later exposed as a Soviet spy, stole U.S. Treasury plates giving them to Bolsheviks in the Soviet Union. This explains why millions of JEWS who illegally entered the United States during WWII arrived with healthy bank- rolls and proceeded to purchase American property and busi- nesses while Aryan Americans were fighting genocidal wars in Europe. White, at the BrettonWoods Agreements (1944), was credited with creation of the World Bank; and the Inter- national Monetary Fund, designed to “stabilize the Interna- tional economy.” Americans contribute billions of tax-dollars annually to these U.N. (One World) related organizations which extend low interest rate loans to foreign governments for “development purposes.” In fact loans are issued to assure that foreign states will have funds available to satisfy loans previously contracted with International Bankers. In effect,
126

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
the U.S. Government guarantees these foreign loans made by International Bankers in event of default! Thus, Bankers enjoy any profits resulting from their high-risk loans while America takes any losses. For many years Robert Strange McNamarra presided over the World Bank. Recently (1997) he apologized to the American people for his lies and mis- management, as U.S. Sec'y of Defense, of the Viet Nam “police action.” White's mentor, Henry Morganthau, Jr., JEW, is best remembered for the Morganthau Plan designed to reduce Germany to a pastoral state. When told his plan would cause millions of German deaths he said, “What the hell do I care about the German people!”
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD (Excerpted)
LOUIS T. McFADDEN, Chr. House Banking & Cur- rency Committee:
Mr. Chairman, we have in this country one of the most corrupt institutions the world has ever known. The Federal Reserve Board has cheated the United States out of enough money to pay the national debt...Mr. Speaker, it is a monstrous thing for this great Nation to have its destiny presided over by a treasonous system acting in secret concert with International pirates and userers. Every effort has been made by the FED to conceal its power. But the truth is the FED has usurped the government of the United States. It controls everything here. It controls foreign relations. It makes and breaks governments at will. (10 June 1932).
Mr. Chairman...there is a condition in the United States Treasury which would cause American citizens, if they knew what it was, to lose all confidence in their government...a con- dition President Roosevelt will not have investigated. Mr. Mor- ganthau has brought with him from Wall Street James
127

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Warburg, son of Paul Warburg, head of the Manhattan Bank (and chief architect of the Federal Reserve System)....James Warburg is the son of a former partner of Kuhn-Loeb Co., a grandson of another partner, and a nephew of a present partner. He holds no office in our government but...is in daily atten- dance at theTreasury, and that he has private quarters there. In other words, Kuhn-Loeb Co.) now occupies the United States Treasury. (29 May 1933).
Mr. Chairman, understanding that Henry Morganthau, who is related to Herbert Lehman, Jewish governor of New York, and is related by marriage or otherwise to the Seligmans of the International Jewish firm of J&W Seligman, who were publicly shown before a Senate Committee of Investigation to have offered a bribe to a foreign government; and to the War- burgs, whose connection through the Kuhn-Loeb Co., and the Bank of Manhattan and other foreign and domestic institu- tions under their control, have drained billions of dollars out of the U.S. Treasury; and to the Strausses, proprietors of R.H. Macy & Co., of New York, which is an outlet for goods dumped upon this country at the government’s expense... and that Mr. Morganthau is likewise related or otherwise connected to the Jewish Banking Community of New York, London, Amsterdam and other financial centers, and that he has as his assistant presiding over public funds, Earl Bailie, a member of the firm J&W Seligman, bribe givers as aforesaid — it seems to me that Henry Morganthau's presence in the United States Treasury, and the request now give him $200-million of the people's money for gambling purposes, is a striking conforma- tion of other speeches I have made on this floor (24 June 1934).
Some people think Federal Reserve Banks are United States Government institutions. They are not Government insti- tutions. They are private credit monopolies which prey upon the people of the United States for the benefits of themselves and their foreign customers; foreign and domestic speculators and swindlers; and rich and predatory money lenders. In that dark crew of financial pirates there are those who would cut a
128

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
man's throat to get a dollar out of his pocket; there are those who send money into states to buy votes to control our legisla- tion; and there are those that maintain an international propa- ganda for deceiving us...that will permit them to cover up their past misdeeds and set again in motion their gigantic train of crime... (10 June 1932)
Congressman Louis T. McFadden is a true American hero. His investigations struck directly at the heart of the ILLUMINATI which, in the 1930s, was plotting the war against Germany and Hitler's economic barter-system. McFadden received scant attention from the press although he endured a barrage of threats, obscene phone calls, and had been shot at. At a banquet in our nation's capitol where he was key-noted to speak upon the full implications of his investigations of the FED he, enjoying good health, sud- denly was seized with paroxysms and died on the spot. There was the usual bungled autopsy that follows the deaths of U.S. government personages.
The privilege of creating and issuing money is... The supreme prerogative of Government. ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD - HOUSE INVESTI- GATING COMMITTEE Secret Minutes of Federal Reserve Banks Disclose Clandestine and Illegal Behavior. (Excerpts 24 May 1977)
Rep. REUSS, JEW, Chrm. Committee Banking and Financing.
We have tried everything from moral suasion to attempts at complete audit of the FED by the General Accounting Office. Our efforts — handicapped by the FED'S all-encom- passing claim of independence have yielded only sporadic
129

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
results. We have never been able to obtain full and complete information about the various activities of the FED. (REUSS EXPLAINS THAT AFTER MUCH EFFORT HIS COM- MITTEE WAS ABLE TO GET PARTIAL MINUTES OF SEVERAL FED MEETINGS FOR THE YEARS 1972-75, Ed.)
What these minutes reveal about the operations of the FED...is disturbing. Even with 904 deletions (in the minutes) made by the FED dealing with "sensitive matters" these min- utes raise the most serious questions about the use of power and money.
The minutes reveal:
1. When Congressional legislation that would have sub- jected the FED to close scrutiny...was under consideration, the FED used the Board of Directors of its Reserve Banks in a lob- bying campaign against the legislation (the FED contacted major corporations - who depend upon banks to conduct busi- ness - urging the corporation executives to threaten withdrawal of political contributions if their Congressmen supported legis- lation to investigate the FED!) (EXTORTION).
2. The FED encouraged Commercial Banks to make loans to favored recipients while denying it was doing so. (COER- CION). 3. The FED permitted a Board of Governors director to vote on matters in which his law firm had vested interests. (COLLUSION).
4. The FED made unsubsidized loans to its own employ- ees. (MALPRACTICE).
5. The FED permitted Directors to vote themselves gifts. , (EMBEZZLEMENT).
Anyone of these activities by itself would be cause for con- cern. Taken together they form a pattern of decision for public accountability. They show a history of behind the scenes manip-
130

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
ulation to ward off legitimate investigations by Congress. (End Report)
The above report resulted in the dismissal of Chairman of the Board of Governors, Arthur Burns (Burnstein), JEW, who was discreetly kicked upstairs by the ILLUMINATI and made Ambassador to Germany! The Committee avoided dis- closure of TREASONOUS ACTIVITY engaged in by the FED, during the years covered by the report (See Chapter 3: ILLUMINATI), when the FED was busy financing Soviet industry during the "Cold War", and our men were dying in Viet Nam.
There can be no doubt of the fact that finance has already more than half enslaved the world and few, if any, individuals, corporations, or even nations can afford to displease the Money Power.
PROF. FREDERICK SODDY, M.A., F.R.S.., Oxford.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD House of Representatives HENRY GONZALES, Chairman House Banking Committee.
Mr. Chairman, we are being held hostage - President, Congress, and the People - by this runaway Board of Gover- nors... I have been a member of the Banking Committee for 20-years... and at no time have we ever had a Chairman or any member of the FED Board show a willingness to show an accounting of its methods, judgments, policies, and proce- dures... made in camera... in the so-called Open Market Com- mittee (FOMC), which is really a secret committee which in effect determines the policies that can make or break any administration in power...Mr. Volcker says, "These policies (his) will result in the dimunition of the standard of living for some Americans." Well, which? David Rockefeller? Chase-Manhattan
131

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Bank had a lot to do with determining the very resolution passed out of this House with respect to Poland (Poland could not repay its debts to American banks)...and Congress reacts immediately: Five Billion Dollars to the International Mone- tary Fund (IMF) so it can help payments to Chase-Manhattan Bank!...Mr. Volcker does not cut-back there...that is not infla- tionary. But he says such things as home-loans, loans to the U.S. farmer...or to small U.S. cities for drainage...for food-stamps...that is inflationary and must be cut out. (2 March 1982).
If the FED is, as the Governors claim, a governmental agency and not an unconstitutional usurper acting illegally, then whenever the FED creates money - as it does in order to would dictate that in such a case the debt would be canceled and the bonds destroyed - like burning a mortgage when the house is paid off. But this does not happen.
REP. JERRY VOORHIS, CA-D, "The Mysteries of the FED", 1981.
Heads of the world's Central Banks are themselves not substantive powers in world finance... they are the technicians and agents of powerful, dominant men: investment bankers who raised them to power and can just as easily throw them down. POWER is with the unincorporated Investment Bankers behind the scenes. These formed a system of International cooperation and dominance which was more private, more secret than that of their agents in the Central Banks.
PROF. CARROLL QUIGLEY, "Tragedy and Hope".
Carroll Quigley, a proponent of One World Govern- ment, was considered an "insider". His book was meant to be a paean to the ILLUMINATI but he told too much. Ini- tially, the book was firmly suppressed and pulled from the stacks. Quigley, a Professor at Georgetown U., died shortly thereafter. President Clinton, in his acceptance address, referred to Quigley as "my mentor".
132

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Congress can pass laws affecting the general economy after long and serious debate; but the FED can sit in a brief session and nullify all of these entirely.
DR. M. A. LARSON, "The FED and Our Manipulated Dollar."
Only the Federal government can take a perfectly good piece of paper, smear ink on it, and make it absolutely worth- less.
LUDWIG VON MISES.
With the understanding that commercial banks, as as Chase-Manhattan; and International Bankers as Kuhn-Loeb Co., are integral parts of JEWRY'S World Banking Empire, let us take a look at an investigation by the State of New York of some commercial banks:
NEW YORK STATE ASSEMBLY
WILLIAM H. HADDAD, Attorney, State of New York.
Mr. Chairman, it is the purpose of this report to outline the pervasive deliberations of two committees (for the Banks). Other evidence comes from the examination of the records...of Chase-Manhattan Bank which voluntarily allowed us to review selected (Bank) material... shortly before they, and all banks, simultaneously stopped cooperating with this inquiry.
There is no doubt that all these men knew precisely what was happening in this City... The banks were clearly over-extended in City Securities and in view of the bankers' unanimous belief about the eventual default of the City, the pressure on these banks to unload their debt-paper by any means must have been irresistible...
The banks bailed out in three ways: 1. They sold extraor- dinary amounts of Municipal Securities from their own portfo- lios. 2. They did not replace matured-out Municipal Securities -
133

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
a reversal of previous practices. 3. They sold for the first time new and older City Securities to non-institutinal and non-pro- fessional investors without disclosing the risk they foresaw...
Precisely, the banks sold New York City securities to small individual investors and they did so without disclosing their inside information as to the City's financial condition.... In one classic situation a doctor had recently sold her apartment... went to a bank rather than her broker to invest money... she was sold securities the bank was unloading... Yet the bank never dis- closed this fact to her.... In her view the bank was a neutral and impartial middleman acting on the highest ethical principals.
Some of the banks were required to unload their portfolios because their poor investments in REITS, tankers, and under developed countries placed them in a financially precarious position. According to the minutes at the second meeting held at Gracie Mansion (the Mayor's dwelling) Mr. Horowitz, Solomon Bros., pointed out "The City has lost the institutional market... although the banks will continue their assitance, out-of-city-banks have stopped buying the City's obligations". In the minutes of the Chase-Manhattan's Planning Committee was the statememt: "We are continuing to sell New York City obligations at every opportunity". The strategy called for sales even if a loss was sustained. Thank you. (End Excerpts Haddad Report)
You will not be surprised to learn that the Securities Exchang Commission (SEC) exonerated all parties of culpa- bility involved in the promotion and sales of the worthless New York City Municipal Bonds. This is not an isolated case. More, it is an indictment of the mind-set of Interna- tional Bankers who always place monetary profit above eth- ics.
Tob Shebbe Goyim Harog! TALMUD: Sanhedrin.
134

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The Tree of Liberty is nourished with the blood of tyrants; It is its natural manure.
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
The State monetary authorities can supply the needs of the People and provide for all work useful to the State to a limit imposed by the availabilities of raw materials and the People's brain-power and muscle-power, without having to ask permis- sion from the Usurer.
EZRA POUND, "Impact".
The panic of 1907 was caused by the deliberate contrac- tion of the currency and credit; the panics of 1920-21 and 1929-35 were due to the same identical cause. There can be no doubt about it; and those behind it went so far that they openly disclosed to the country the plan and purpose, which forever put the plan on public records. It can never be erased. ROBERT S. OWEN, U.S. Sen., Congressional Record, 3-18-32.
The record shows that in May 1920, by a drastic increase in its rediscount rate (interest rate the FED charges banks) one of history's sharpest declines in business activity and collapse in prices was deliberately brought about. The result was a desperate depression America never recovered from, despite FDR's liberal New Deal, until the creation of WW II and U.S. factories started to churn again. This was the ILLUMINATI ploy to prepare America for war with Ger- many which was happy and prospering after Hitler kicked out the JEW usurers and Marxists.
By all these means we shall so wear down the goyim that they will be compelled to offer us international power of a nature that will enable us withhout violence gradually to absorb all the state forces of the world and to form a super government. THE PROTOCOLS, Section V.
135

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
SOME ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Federal Debt
Pers. Inc. Tax
Value of Dollar Property owned by FED Cost loaf of bread
Cost ton of coal
* 1998 Federal Debt is over 6-Trillion dollars!
1913 1.2 Billion
3.0 Million 100 Cents negligible
1982
1.5 Trillion* 200 Billion
7 Cents 700 Billion 65 Cents
35 Dollars
  10 Cents 14 Dollars
 Because Congress did not delegate its legislative author- ity over Standard weights and measures, today: One ton = 2000 lbs. One foot = 12 inches. To pay-off a One Trillion Dollars debt at the rate of One dollar per second would require 31,682 years (not including interest).
What about "successful" Americans who have retired with generous annuities, and pensions? The system has been pretty good to them you say. Yes, that is their reward for going along with the system, not raising any dust. Not asking any questions. “Kissing ass”. What they have done is mortgage the United States of America in exchange for a condomin- ium on the golf course. Their sons, daughters and grandchil- dren will foot the bill as miscegenated brown sheep under One World Dictate. Never forget: DEBT IS SLAVERY! And, unless you are a banker, you pay it back in blood, toil, tears and sweat.
By the end of this decade we will live under the first One World Government that has ever existed in the society of nations.
POPE JOHN PAUL II, "Keys of this Blood", by Malachi Mar- tin
136

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Chapter 5
SPIROCHETES OF JEW SYPHILIS
The development of society is subject not to biological Laws (Nature) but to higher social laws. Attempts to spread to humanity the laws of the animal kingdom are an attempt to lower the human being to the level of beasts.
INSTITUTE OF ACADEMY OF SCIENCES,U.S.S.R.
Marxist theory is this century's most influential system of thought.
ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI, “Between Two Ages.”
The Hatred that formed the core of Marxism is present in the new religion (Freudianism) also. In both cases it is the hate of the outsider for his totally alien surroundings, which he can- not change, and therefore must destroy.
FRANCIS PARKER YOCKEY, Imperium.
In the language... of myth, vomit is the correlative and inverse term of coitus; and defecation is the correlative and inverse term to auditory communication.
CLAUDE LEVI-STRAUSS, JEW, Freudian.
The Old Testament apocalyptics of Marxism...the anthro- pomorphic symbolism of Freud sat well with a religious people looking for a replacement for a dying, anachronistic faith. It was a godsend when Boas arrived...and obligingly declared that all races are equal.
WILMOT ROBERSTSON, The Dispossessed Majority.
THE 20TH CENTURY is called the bloodiest century. It also has been called the AGE OF LIES because KHAZAR JEWS devised a program, backed by immense financial resources, through which they took control of America's
137

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
MASS-MEDIA (the technology that made those remarkable systems possible — printing, electric light, radio, television, pho- tography, motion-pictures, recording, transistors, computers, sat- ellites, etc. — are all Aryan inventions).
The capture of America's communications systems by an alien nation is a theft of such critical implications that it boggles the mind. The free-flow of ideas and information envisioned by our Founding Fathers, essential to our Repub- lic is filtered first through the minds of TALMUDIC MEDIA MOGULS who promulgate only what they want you and your children to know. The First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States has been abrogated. Amer- ica dies from lack of FACTS. Instead, mass-media propa- ganda, misinformation, disinformation and filth is the deadly poison daily fed to the West: “applause tracks” included.
Therefore, when the charlatans MARX, FREUD, and BOAS (all JEWS) emerged from the ghettos of Europe, it was to be expected that they would be bank-rolled by the ILLUMINATI and promoted enthusiastically by America's mass-media as saviors of Western Civilization! When in fact THEY WERE ITS INTENDED DESTROYERS. Their apparent objectives concealed their subterranean goals.
MARX attacked the Natural order of Mankind — rule by the Best. FREUD aimed at poisoning the Aryan mind. BOAS attacked the White gene-pool. Research produced by these Satanical quacks supporting their hypotheses was totally sub- jective. Facts were considered irrelevant: the end justified the
138

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
means. It is improbable that they actually believed their own theories. In one of his widely known letters to Engels, his co- conspirator, Marx accurately describes Das Kapital as “full of shit.” Surely Freud and Boas had similar opinions of their own thaumaturgical garbage. In the end they were simply KHAZARS engaged in a battle of envy, hate and revenge against the Aryan West. William G. Simpson, Which Way Western Man?, refers to their TALMUDIC ideologies as “spi- rochetes of JEW syphilis.”
MARXISM
KARL MARX, JEW (1818-1883), was born in Ger- many, grandson of a rabbi; he converted to Protestantism, married a Gentile of petite nobility; then, suffering cultural alienation, he abandoned his wife, family and Christianity. His compulsion was to destroy the Aryan society that had rejected him. His contribution to the World Revolutionary Movement was immense.
Marx’s strategy was to instill HATRED between the classes where it was non-existent before. The theme underly- ing his political ideology is: all History, all Life, is economic class warfare. The two warring classes are the Proletariat (labor), the good guys; versus the Capitalists (Bourgeoisie), exploiters of the proletariat. Capitalism is evil. Therefore every vestige of Capitalism must be eliminated: “Expropria- tion of the expropriator” (what's yours is mine); and “all infected animals” will be destroyed (i.e, Tob Shebbe Goyim Harog!). The “Dictate of the proletariat” will be established, Marx promises, which eventually will give way to a stateless,
139

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
classless, godless society wherein everyone is equal (no Chris- tians allowed, however’ and “anti-Semitism” (HATE) is a crime!). Marx anticipated Franz Boas, JEW, in his conviction that Man's accomplishments are simply a reflection of environ- ment. Ergo, qualities of human intelligence, personality, behavior, emotional and spiritual life, are determined by Man's economic position. Man, he assures us, is an animal shaped by lust for money: the Idea of State and Nation (Race) is ludicrous. There are only self-interested individuals, classes and groups that hate one another.
MARX formulated his anti-nature ideology by borrow- ing, out of context, ideas from two Aryan philosophers: the great GeorgW. Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831); and Ludwig A. Feuerbach (1804-1872), who is remembered primarily for his influence on Marx and Sartre.
HEGEL believed that Man’s salvation would come through Reason. He believed that Reason operated according to the Dialectical Method, in which an Idea (Thesis) is chal- lenged by its opposite (Antithesis), and the two subsequently metamorphose into an interfused Whole (Synthesis). Hegel saw this method working in logic; in World history; in man- agement of the State; and in the establishing the Spirit of the Age. Hegal, an idealist who would have ridiculed Marx, believed the Dialectic produced harmonious and continuous evolution within the Nation-State and between its component parts. FEUERBACH, a materialist, said man is what he eats: matter in motion, nothing more. This concept appears, also, in Freud’s and Boas’ rantings.
140

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Marx stated there is no God therefore man is not accountable for his acts to some divine Judge. Man is with- out soul or free-will therefore without significant individual value. He is an evolutionary animal dependent upon his mind (Reason) for salvation. Marx believed Man's destiny is determined solely by his environment (Marx, apparently, never learned of his nemesis, Gregor Johann Mendel (1822- 1884), after whom Mendelism is named — the study of all things Genetic). In nature everything is evolving because everything is determined by its opposite: ergo, the thesis syn- thesizes with the antithesis thus becoming a new and differ- ent thesis — this process repeats itself ad infinitum. In society, therefore, conflict (Dialectical Materialism) is inevi- table, essential and continuous until the entire structure (State) collapses. Because this fate is inevitable, and change is progress, why wait? Revolt. Now. Destroy! Kill! Bourgeoisie v. Proletariat = Revolution = dictate = ONE WORLD JEW GOVERNMENT. The ILLUMINATI sponsors Marxists/ Anarchists.
There are times when creation can be achieved only through destruction. The urge to destroy, then, is a creative urge.
MICHAEL BAKUNIN, Marxist.
“Bourgeoisie” is a JEW code-word for successful goyim: more specifically, for successful middleclass WHITEMEN. The Bourgeoisie, according to Marx, possess everything but are entitled to nothing. While the proletariat possess nothing
141

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
but are entitled to everything. This is also a Christian con- cept: “The last shall be first.” Albeit, Marx neglected to men- tion that the Dialectic insists the proletariat, too, shall be replaced! The masses are too ignorant to question the Pied Piper, but they very much like the idea of immediate EQUALITY (see de Tocqueville).
The victory of the proletariat will abolish all classes except for one: “The dictate of the proletariate.” And what or who is that? The Dictate are privileged JEWS who will pre- side over the proletarian State. The State will own the farms businesses, industries, palaces, town-houses and dachas, expropriated from the filthy bourgeois! The Dictate will also own the Gulag, which will be filled with prols. As George Orwell, perspicaciously pointed out in his book Animal Farm: Every one is equal — but some are more equal than oth- ers.
Marxism is simultaneously a victory of the external, active man, over the inner, passive man; and a victory of reason over belief....Americas is undergoing a revolution...(that) unmasks its obsolescence...by the year 2000 it will be accepted that Rob- spierre and Lenin were mild reformers.
Z. BRZEZINSKI, “Between Two Worlds"; CFR/TRI, Prof. Georgetown U., advisor to U.S. President Jimmy Carter.
We Jews, we the destroyers, will remain the destroyers for ever. Nothing that you do will meet our needs and demands. We will forever destroy because we need a world of our own... MAURICE SAMUELS, “You Gentiles” (1924).
142

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
F. P. Yockey, in his suppressed book Imperium, notes that MARXISM is seriously flawed because MARX, being a JEW, could not understand the real differences between CAPI- TALISM and SOCIALISM, which emanated from the WESTERN CULTURE-ORGANISM. Capitalism and Socialism are how a Nation (Family, People, Race) feels, thinks, and lives, and secondarily are ECONOMIC CONCEPTS. One is past history; the other, WESTERN SOCIALISM, represents the future of the West, and the end of JEWRY on Western soil.
The Age of Reason produced CAPITALISM in the West, the IDEA of rugged individualism: “Every Man for Himself.” Freedom from authority: “Don't tread on me!” At the same time, paradoxically, it was understood, that these rugged individuals should act in the best interest of the Nation-State. To the West ECONOMIC CAPITALISM meant: free trade, no personal income-tax, no state interfer- ence in money matters, private ownership, etc. USURY, however, was relegated outside the Pale, and proscribed.
Capitalists found no fault with economically defeating, within the law, opposing economic groups. That was consid- ered “healthy competition.” European States, goaded by Bankers, also competed with one another. Often with disas- trous results. During WWI it became painfully clear that the IDEA of “rugged individualism” worked against the ARYAN NATION and its individual States.
WESTERN SOCIALISM, unlike Marxism/Commu- nism and Capitalism, emanates not from Reason alone but
143

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
from the ETHOS OF THE WEST. It expresses the instinc- tive and Intuitive feelings UNIQUE to the Aryan Nation. Its Idea is the Musketeers' cry: “One for All and All for One!” The ingathering of the White Nation-States into ONE CULTURAL ORGANISM — its own territory and its own State in which to house, protect, and nurture the Nation — precludes Marxist inspired class warfare and hate-struggles between its component parts. The ECONOMY springs from the CULTURE. MONEY becomes merely a tool, a means of exchange, a storage of value — not an ILLUMI- NATI weapon.
To Socialism money-possession is not the determinant of rank in society any more than it is in the Army. Social rank in Socialism does not follow Money but authority (ability). FRANCIS PARKER YOCKEY, Imperium
World-class thinkers of all disciplines agree, MARXISM and the Age of Reason have come to an ignominious dead- end. No intelligent person took MARX seriously. His Old Testament idea that work is evil — and New Testament idea that men and races are equally endowed — opposes Nature and the very Soul of the West. The carrot offered “Workers of the World” was immediate EQUALITY in exchange for their dumb obedience. After the “expropriation” they would “lose their chains” and retire into La-La land; to be served and supported forever by survivors of the hated middle-class! (as in the United States, Europe, and South Africa today).
144

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
As a propagandist — a seducer of innocents, sophists, Liberals and born losers — MARX was superb. His place in history assured.
3-million unarmed middle-class Russians (priests, pro- prietors, artists, scientists, farmers, managers, et al.) were slaughtered in the initial thrust of the BOLSHEVIK REVO- LUTION, and 31-million died in the aftermath of its JEW TERROR.
Marxists, Bolsheviks, Communists denounce “capitalist pigs.” While from behind the scenes — in the on-going bat- tle to implement the PROTOCOLS OF ZION — all wars and revolutions are financed by JEW CAPITALISTS.
Today it is estimated even by Jacob's grandson, John Schiff (Kuhn-Loeb Co.), a prominent member of New York Society, that the old man sank about $20-million for the final triumph of Bolshevism in Russia.
CHOLLY KNICKERBOCKER, “N.Y. Journal-American", 2- 3-49.
FREUD
Today, Sigmund Freud, JEW (1856-1939), is known only for his anti-cultural significance. And for the severe damage he inflicted upon the Western psyche before his hoax was revealed. Freud like Marx attempted to lump all men together as equals, stripped of any noble or spiritual, signifi- cance. The two JEWS simply used different methods to accom- plish a singular purpose, the ILLUMINATI purpose: Destruction of the West.
145

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
When Freud was a young doctor a Viennese psycholo- gist described to him the case-history of a patient who, while under hypnosis, related a traumatic event in her life that con- tinued to cause her anxiety. Upon being released from hyp- nosis her anxiety was completely cured. Freud, like Saul of Tarsus, JEW, on the road to Damascus, suddenly saw “possi- bilities” and opened a “head-shrinking” business. He aban- doned the use of hypnosis and invented psychoanalysis. A method of consultation in which patients, reluctant to reveal their intimate personal problems (resistance), transfer their emotional ties to the analyst.
PSYCHOLOGY is the study of neurosis, psychosis, per- version, and the normal mind. PSYCHOANALYSIS is a treatment. But of what? Symptoms can be diagnosed but the root cause, like the wind, can't be seen. Brain diseases, are physiological, and tangible. But mind diseases originate in the genes and the Soul of Man, two areas Freud knew noth- ing about, and cared about even less. Psychiatric “couch ses- sions", like seances (rap sessions) and tea-readings, are clothed in an ambiance of mystery and occult nomenclature. Actually analysis is little more than the power of suggestion. Everyone knows “confession is good for the soul.” And a pla- cebo may accomplish miracles. But the Freudian “cure” began with the premise that everyone is neurotic: either per- verted or inverted. Ergo, Aryans are sick, too! Just like us JEWS.
146

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The fundamental problem is that psychoanalysis is the product of JEW animus toward Western Civilization. The unconscious desire of the JEWS is to unmask the respectability of European society...which closed JEWS out...by dredging up sordid and infantile sexual aberrations.
HOWARD SACHER, JEW. One of the original Freudians.
Ergo, revelations by credulous patients, duped into compliance, relieve the analysts’ inferiority-complexes! JEWS (Psychoanalysts) are easily converted to a JEW system.
Since they are unable to understand or participate in West- ern society they have no choice but to oppose it.
SIGMUND FREUD, JEW, “The Resistance to Psychoanaly- sis.”
Another problem is that JEW psychoanalysts, who more often than not are mentally abnormal, are licensed to deter- mine who is “normal.” This is reminiscent of The Blind Men and the Elephant. Then there is the “couch problem.” Pater- nity and molestation Law suits against analysts, whose prac- tice is to relieve vulnerable patients of sexual anxieties, are as frequent as L.A. muggings. This is like hiring the pedophiles Woody Allen, JEW, and Roman Polanski, JEW, to baby-sit.
The madness continues as Freud focuses on the Western Soul. He finds it strictly mechanical and totally predictable: Spiritual impulses are simply sexual impulses. Therefore, in Freud’s TALMUDIC brain all men are EQUAL because they are all sexually neurotic. And he decides what is neurotic! To Karl Marx, Beethoven’s 9th Symphony was Bourgeoisie
147

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
duplicity. To Freud it expressed Beethoven's latent lust for Schiller. Obviously, Cultural Man, the JEWS’ enemy, must be eliminated by turning him into an economic robot and animated genitalia!
A generation ago the leading theory about schizophrenia was...(that it was) caused by cold and distant mothering, itself the mother’s unconscious wish that her child had never been born... 20-years later that artifact of the Freudian (JEW) era is entirely discredited.
U.S. NEWS & WORLD REPORT, 4-21-97.
Freud’s gimmick: that the Aryan Soul is mechanical, allowed him to invent diseases of the Soul which only he and his JEW disciples could diagnose and cure: neurosis, com- plexes (especially guilt, and inferiority), repression, perver- sion, fixation, penile envy, etc. Part of the “cure” was DREAM ANALYSIS, which contains common reoccurring patterns. These patterns have convoluted, esoteric interpreta- tions. But, only caballa members understand them and only they can effect the thaumaturgic “cures.” The DREAM WORLD reflects Soul “anxiety.” For example, to dream of the death of a family member meant you hated one or both of your parents. Freudians conceived another “Original Sin": all children are sexually perverted, therefore, because Child is father to the Man, everyone is sexually perverted. EVERY- ONE IS SICK!
Freudianism is Kabbalistic, encompassing the occult, Satanism, phallisicm, necromancy, numerology, etc., all ema-
148

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
nating from Hebraic superstitions, Talmudic lore, and from Freud's cocaine-diseased brain.
Hollywood finds sit-com material
Ever since Sigmund Freud declared that all young boys want to kill their fathers and copulate with their mothers JEWS have been been waging war against the traditional Aryan family...The latest poison...comes from Drs. Louise B. Silverstein and Carl P. Auerbach (JEWS) in their article “Deconstructing the Essential Father.” They write:
“In contrast to neo-conservative perspective, our data on gay fathering couples have convinced us that neither mother nor father is essential”...they agree that children need some “responsible care-taking” adult, but that “one, none, or both...could be a father or mother” with equal degree of effec- tiveness. Furthermore they deny that “heterosexual marriage is the social context in which responsible fathering is most likely to occur.” Silverstein and Auerbach infer that LOVE shared by natural parents and their children is no greater than that shared with foster-parents — whether queer, straight, or the same race. In their MARXIST/LIBERAL/ TALMUDIC world, all “care- takers” are equal. Therefore, natural families are equally irrele- vant.
REVIEW: THE AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGIST (1-6-99), official journal of the American Psychological Association.
When the Berlin Wall fell (1990) Marxism went down... Freudianism, too, despite its continuing influence...has also come tumbling down. Today the official line is that psychoanal- ysis is not really a science after all but rather an art form...com- parable to flower arrangement or macrame?
JOSEPH EPSTEIN, JEW, editor of The American Scholar.
149

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
BOASISM
FRANZ BOAS, JEW (1858-1942) was born in Ger- many. As Marx and Freud he was a KHAZAR, distinguished by his repellent physical ugliness. He was not an anthropolo- gist, and where he got his doctorate remains uncertain (Kiel, Ger.?). Albeit, he was appointed professor of Anthropology, Columbia University, in 1899, remaining there for 40-years. His sponsors undoubtedly were ILLUMINISTS.
Boas’ objective was to strike at the heart of the Aryan Race — its gene-pool. To that end he organized the Boas School of CULTURAL ANTHROPOLOGY which presents the doctrine that there are no distinct races; per contra it pro- fesses that ALL men share EQUAL potential: racial differ- ences result, largely, from environmental factors rather than from heredity. This ideology, or pseudo-science, is enthusiastically endorsed by LIBERALS/ MARXISTS/JEWS and is totally disproved by the natural science of Physical Anthropology — accepted by foremost world authorities on the subject. Boas asserts that Race is a myth because the races over eons have intermingled; that mongrel mixtures are better than the par- ents. They argue that all human blood is the same; all peo- ples have a common origin; the races are, therefore, akin. No race excels because it is more gifted, or better, but because it has had a more favorable environment and better luck. Because races are equal miscegenation is not only permissi- ble, it is desirable (eliminate the cursed White Race). We are The Family of Man, therefore, ALL MEN ARE EQUAL.
150

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The United Nations gave the Boas Doctrine its uncondi- tional approval:
The scientific evidence indicates that the range of mental capabilities in all ethnic groups is much the same...As for per- sonality and character, these may be considered raceless...given similar degrees of cultural opportunities to realize their potenti- alities, the average achievement of members of each ethnic group is about the same.
UNESCO papers, (Excerpt) 1950.
As we have learned, SPIROCHETES OF JEW SYPHI- LIS (Boasism is one of these) are injected into every society the ILLUMINATI sets out to destroy. But, let me say here and now that the Boas Doctrine — in its entirety — has been exposed as a fraud! This will be discussed more fully in Chap- ter V, Mendelism.
Founders of the Boas School of Anthropology were Ash- ley Montague (Israel Ehrenberg), Raymond Pearl, Melville Herskovitz, Herbert Seligman, Otto Klineberg, Gene Welt- fish, Amran Sheinfeld, Isadore Chein, Ruth Benedict, Marg- aret Meade, and Kenneth Clark. All but three (Meade, Benedict, and the negro Clark) are JEWS. Boas was cited by Congress for 46-Communist front affiliations. The subver- sive activities of Montague, Weltfish, Benedict, and Hersko- vitz are well known to the CIA, FBI and Congressional investigating committees. All of these MARXISTS/LIBER- ALS/JEWS, spreading JEW syphilis, established chairs of
151

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Cultural Anthropology at America’s most prestigious univer- sities.
During their spurious academic careers Boasites LIED repeatedly, falsified research, bore false witness, slandered, and used all means necessary to achieve their ultimate objective. I knew Franz Boas personally. I was able to observe his influence as founder of the science of anthropology in America. I was also able to observe the increasing degree of control exercised by the Boas cult over students and younger professors until fear or loss of jobs or status was common... unless conformity to the dogma of racial equality was maintained...
DR. H. E. GARRETTT, Chr. Dept. of Psychology, Columbia Univ.
PROFESSOR JOHN R. BAKER, Oxford, (“Science and the Planned State”) quotes Boasite and Communist scholar Triofim Lysenko, U.S.S.R., who declared that science must be made to support Communist theory; that facts regarding chromosomes and heredity must be suppressed because “from its conception (genetics) leads to reactionary ideas about race... and it is possible to defend the false basis of Men- delism only by lies.” In the Soviet, proponents of genetics were executed, or imprisoned in the Gulag. (Anti-Semitism was made a crime). The distinction between Mendelism (Nature) and Marxism (ideology) is expressed best in the following lines:
“Beauty is Truth and Truth is Beauty — that is all ye know upon this earth and all you need to know.”
JOHN KEATS, “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
152

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
During the WWII Era, MARXISM/LIBERALISM/ JEWRY equated Mendelism with Nazism, “racism", and the alleged “Holocaust.” Consequently, throughout the West, the Anti-Defamation League of the B’nai B’rith (Sons of the Covenant) made it verboten to discuss Genetics in public forum. By the 1980s, however, the vast benefits being made available to Mankind through Mendelism were described in the most prestigious scientific journals, lectures, and so on, making it impossible for the mass-media to conceal the FACTS any longer; one of which is: the Races are inherently unequal. This irrefutable fact strikes at the heart of MARXISM/ LIBERALISM/JEWRY and their effort to miscegenate the Races and create One World ILLUMINATI Government. As one might expect the mass-media, Christian Church, JEWRY and academia continue to promulgate the false doctrines of BOASISM and ignore or decry Mendelism.
Marxists are self-confessed partisans, their “science” subor- dinate to their (ideological) commitment. That can hardly do less than prejudice their analysis, their data, hinder free inquiry, and distort their conclusions.
PROF. A. JAMES GREGOR, The Mankind Quarterly (Spr. '62).
The BOAS proposal that Mankind is composed of interchangeable races equally endowed with courage, intelli- gence, character, ability, discipline, ambition, morals, etc., would have caused the signers of the U.S. Constitution to
153

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
grab their rifles. Moreover, the Founders believed in meritoc- racy NOT rank-in-reverse: privates running the army, and media-moguls running the U.S. Congress. Founders expected America always to be a bastion of the West. Not a racial refuse dump. FRANZ BOAS, JEW, more than any other individual, destroyed the Founders' visions.
BOASISM seeks a Communist equality — not equality of opportunity or equality-of-merit but of results — which requires transferring money from achievers, who earned it, to the incapable, indigent and “disadvantaged.” Since achievers resist dispossession the government is given more regulatory and police powers. The under-achievers — a large voting- bloc — very much favor receiving your tax-dollars from pol- iticians who will give away anything (of yours) for a vote. How else can degenerates like U.S. Senator Ted Kennedy remain in office? In the U.S., today, 60% of the National Budget goes toward Welfare. Distributors of this immense wealth are low IQ Negroes (the “rising middle-class") employed by local, state, and federal governments at high IQ salaries.
My house is a decayed house, and the JEW squats on the window sill, the owner, Spawned in some estamint of Antwerp, Blistered in Brussels, Patched and peeled in London...
T.S. ELIOT, from “Gerontion.”
The 1950 UNESCO Statement denying Race as a fac- tor (see above), was denounced by the world's most distin- guished scientists, and by men in the streets who knew race
154

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
when they saw it. In 1952 UNESCO retracted its statement acknowledging finally that “Races are ‘real’ and not mere “artifacts of classification.” But, true to its Marxist orienta- tion, UNESCO conveniently forgot its apology. Its original (1950) position as stated now appears in almost all reference books.
Similar misinformation (LIES) occurred in the pivotal and tragic U.S. Supreme Court case Brown v. The Board of Education, 1954, which decided against segregation of the Negro. The case was presented by Thurgood Marshall, Negro, Consul for the NAACP, supported by the NAACP staff of JEW lawyers. BOASIST Professor Kenneth B. Clark, Negro, performed as chief witness. Clark presented research data from his experiments with black and white dolls, and the reaction of Negro children to those tests, “proving that segregation inflicts injuries upon the Negro.” He almost had the justices in tears. Problem was, the research was DONE INCORRECTLY and THE CONCLUSIONS WERE SPURIOUS.
I am forced to the conclusion that Professor Clark misled the court....In short, if Professor Clark's tests do demonstrate damage to Negro children, then they demonstrate the damage is less with segregation and more with congregation (integra- tion)...Did Professor Clark know that his previous tests indicate that according to his own criteria Negro children are less dam- aged by segregation than by congregation?... From Professor Clark’s experiments, his testimony, and finally his essay... the best conclusion that can be drawn is that he did not know what he was doing; and worst, that he did.
155

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
DR. ERNEST VAN DEN HAAG, Professor of Social Philoso- phy, NYU, Villanova Law Review (VI, 1960).
The problem we faced was not the historian’s discovery of the truth... it was not that we were formulating lies... we were using facts... sliding off facts... quietly ignoring facts and above all interpreting facts in a way... to get by those boys down there. DR. A. H. KELLY, expert employed by the NAACP, in a con- fession before the American Historical Assoc., 1961, regarding the infamous desegregation case.
Marshall went on to become a member of the U.S. Supreme Court where his colleagues voted his opinions the worst in Court history. Clarke continued the JEWS’ tool to the bitter end.
The disasters visited upon White America, and upon Negroes, and the disasters yet to come, resultant of the Supreme Court decision to miscegenate the races, are almost incalculable.
156

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Chapter 6
THE “HOLOCAUST” HOAX Spirochetes of JEW Syphilis (Continued)
The Holocaust was the murder of 6-Million Jews, includ- ing 2-Million children. Holocaust denial is a second murder of those same 6-Million. First their lives were extinguished then their deaths. A person who denies the Holocaust becomes part of the crime of the Holocaust itself.
DAVID MATAS, JEW, Senior Counsel, “League for Human Rights,” B’nai B’rith.
The policy pursued by the Third Reich resulted in the kill- ing of 6-Million JEWS of which 4-Million were killed in the extermination institutions.
INTERNATIONAL MILITARY TRIBUNAL, Nuremberg, Germany.
My objection to the Nuremberg Trial was that while Clothed in the form of justice they were in fact an instrument of government policy determined once before at Teheran and Yalta... a blot on the American record we shall long regret...which violates the fundamental principal of American Law that a man cannot be tried under ex post facto statute. U.S. SEN. ROBERT TAFT, “Profiles in Courage,” by J. F. Kennedy.
So far as the Nuremberg Trial... I dislike extremely to see it dressed up with a false facade of legality.
HARLAN FISKE STONE, Chief Justice U.S. Supreme Court.
The statements admitted as evidence were obtained from men who had first been kept in solitary confinement (up to) five months...The investigators would put a black hood over the accused's head and then punch him in the face with brass knuckles, kick him and beat him with rubber hoses...137 Ger- mans out of 139 cases had their testicles smashed beyond repair...(Other methods used were) Posturing as priests to hear
157

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
confession and absolution; torture with burning matches driven under the nails; knocking out teeth and breaking bones; near starvation rations; threatening to deport accuseds' families to the Soviet side... The “American” investigators responsible (who later functioned as prosecutors at the Nuremberg Trials were, Lt. Col. Burton Ellis (Chief of the War Crimes Committee) and his assistants: Capt. Raphael Shumacher, JEW; Lt. Robert E. Byrne; Lt. Wm. R. Perl, JEW; Mr. Morris Ellpowitz, JEW; Mr. Harry Thon; Mr. D. Kirschbaum, JEW; Col. A.H. Rosenfield, JEW, Legal Advisor to the court.
E. L. VAN RHODEN, Simpson Army Commission, Dachau, 1948.
The entire atmosphere here is unwholesome... Lawyers, clerks, interpreters, and researchers were employed (JEWS) — who became Americans only recently — whose backgrounds were embedded in Europe's hatred's and prejudices.
JUSTICE WENNERSTRUM, Nuremberg Military Tribunal.
The JEW against the Goy is allowed to rape, cheat and per- jure himself.
TALMUD: Babba Kama.
TOB SHEBBE GOYIM HAROG! (The best of the Gen- tiles is to be killed!)
TALMUD: Sanhedrin.
THE “HOLOCAUST” must be viewed in context: against the back-ground of world history, the TORAH, the TALMUD, and Rothschild’s World Revolutionary Move- ment (WRM). It is necessary to comprehend the KHAZAR JEWS’ congenital hatred of Gentiles, with their most rabid hatred reserved for the Aryan nation.
The ILLUMINATI set up the chess-board for WWI, their profits assured, when a corrupt U.S. Congress enacted the Federal Reserve Act (1913). The murders of Archduke
158

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Francis Ferdinand and his wife, by Gavrilo Princip, Serb FREEMASON, precipitated the War. BOLSHEVIK inspired treason destroyed Russia's ability to continue the war. German troops, then, were transferred from Russia to the Western Front. The war was being won by Germany when Chaim Weizmann, JEW (later, first President of Israel) made a quid pro quo agreement with Britain: JEWS would bring the United States into the war if Britain would guarantee JEWS (KHAZARS) a “Homeland in Palestine” (Britain dou- ble-crossed the Arabs with the Balfour Declaration, 1917). JEW lies about German “atrocities” brought America into the war. Following the “Armistice,” and the betrayal and defeat of Germany, terms of the infamous Treaty of Versailles (The “Kosher Treaty") almost destroyed the German people. BOLSHEVIKS moved in for the kill, attempting to establish a Soviet Dictate in Germany as they had in Russia. But the German People tossed them out. Then, to the astonishment of the world, Chancellor Adolph Hitler, who emphasized genetics and the homogeneity of the Aryan race, led Ger- many to an amazing spiritual and economic recovery. How- ever, JEWS consider nationalism, racial pride, and family, threats to their “Chosen” status; that is, their “right” to embed themselves among their cattle and suck their vital juices undetected. The WORLD JEWISH CONGRESS (organized in Geneva, Switzerland, by “American” rabbi Stephen Wise) Declared War on Germany (1933): manifest in money manipulation, slander, libel, assassinations, boycott of German products, sabotage, etc. JEW mischief is seen in the Lindbergh kidnapping/murder case (see: Isador Fisch,
159

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
JEW); the Hindenburg Zeppelin tragedy and other crimes against Aryans of German descent here and abroad, as the ILLUMINATI prepared for WW II. Germans, thereafter, considered JEWS not only alien intruders but enemies of the State. The CULTURAL schism between Aryans and JEWS worked to the advantage of ZIONISTS in their efforts to induce KHAZAR JEWS everywhere to “return” to Palestine. Thus, we find ZIONISTS collaborating with the Third Reich, and other European governments to remove JEWS from soon to be incinerated Europe.
Hitler's “unforgivable sin” was not his policy to colonize JEWS — they had been kicked out of every European state at one time or another. WWII was fought because Hitler's Juden Frei MONETARY POLICY completely by-passed Rothschild's centralbanking system. Germany's new Reich's Bank abandoned international gold reserves; issued its own interest-free currency (as Lincoln had done) — backed only by the productive capacity of the German People. In retalia- tion the INTERNATIONAL BANKERS refused to accept the Deutsch Mark on the foreign exchange. Germany, then, simply bartered her products, by-passing the middleman. Visible to the entire world, Germany had defied the ILLUMINATI, dug herself out of a pit of debt and despair, thrown off her shackles and became the most prosperous State in Europe. JEWS knew their worldwide banking empire was jeopar- dized. General George Catlett Marshall, U.S. Sec'y of State, records in his memoirs that in 1938 — three years before Pearl Harbor — “American” Bernard Baruch, JEW, confi-
160

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
dant of Wilson, Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Churchill and many other power-players, stated, “We're going to get that fellow Hitler! We're not going to let him get away with it...we're going to destroy Germany's barter system!” But other world leaders paid Hitler well deserved tribute:
A change in Germany's monetary system caused her to turn from abysmal depression to a glorious economy...which caused England's WWI leader, Lloyd George, to call Hitler, ‘The greatest statesman living and the German people the hap- piest on earth.’
HUGO R. FLACK, “The Great Betrayal.”
While all those formidable transformations were occurring in Europe, Corporal Hitler was fighting his long wearing battle for the German heart. The story of that struggle cannot be read without admiration... If our country were defeated I hope we should find a champion as indomitable to restore our courage and lead us back to our place among nations.
WINSTON CHURCHILL, “Straight Speaking” by Francis Neilson.
Mariner Eccles of the Federal Reserve Board, U.S.A., and Montague Norman, JEW, of the Bank of England decided, not later than 1935, on the joint policy of killing Hitler's financial experiment by all methods including war if necessary. Norman's job was to engineer Hitler into the dilemma of having to reverse his financial policy or commit an act of aggression.
“THE WORD,” English monthly, C. C. Vieth.
The fight against Germany has been carried on for months... by every JEW in the world.... We shall let loose a spir- itual; and material war of the whole world against Germany. Germany's ambition is to become a great nation again... our JEWISH interests on the other hand demand the complete destruction of Germany. The German nation is collectively and individually a danger to us JEWS.
161

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
V. JABLONSKY, JEW, Representative French Zionist Con- gress, from his article in “Natcha Retch", 1932.
Let me take you back to 1913... If I had stood here then and said to you...the Archduke would be killed and that out of all that followed came the chance, the opportunity, the occasion for establishing a national home for JEWS in Palestine...you would have looked at me as an idle dreamer. Has it ever occurred to you how remarkable it is that out of this welter of world blood there has arisen this opportunity? Do you really believe this is an accident?
LORD MELCHETTE, JEW, Pres. English Zionist Federation, 1928.
As you remember, Rothschild planted the BOLSHE- VIK/COMMUNIST STATE in Russia (1917), totally depended upon his central-banking system. The U.S.S.R. was a Bolshevik dagger pointed at the heart of Europe. Hit- ler's strategy was to defeat the U.S.S.R. Liberate the Great Russian people from KHAZAR/JEW domination — creat- ing a new Euro-Slavic trading partner. Then, by deporting alien races, Hitler intended to create a united Europe with an Aryan population base.
Germans despised and feared Communism. They had witnessed the horrors of the Bolkshevik Revolution, in which the cultural-stratum of Russia, and Eastern Europe had been virtually annihilated. Germans were angered too by the slaughter (1918) of the Russian Royal Family: The Czar, Czarina (a Catholic German princess), their four young daughters, and 12-year old son. All had been hacked and shot to death, by JEWS, their bodies dismembered, thrown
162

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
into a pit, then covered with lime (Skeletal remains were recovered, c.1990).
Before WWII, Hitler had established himself as the arch enemy of Liberalism, Marxism, and Jewry — precisely the three driving forces...that had ridden into power with Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal (Democrats).
WILMOT ROBERTSON, The Dispossessed Majority, 1976.
The first spectacular triumph of the non-Christian Eastern European Democrats was Roosevelt's recognition, less than 9- months after his inauguration, of the Soviet government of Russia... November 16, 1933 — at midnight! ...a date our chil- dren will long have tragic cause to remember. That was the date Soviet Foreign Commisar, Maxim Litvinoff (Finkelstein) JEW, plunderer of Estonia and the Soviet's first agent for socializing England, sat down with President Roosevelt — after Dean Acheson (the “Red Dean”) and Henry Morganthau, JEW, had done the spadework of propaganda and made the deal that has led the American people and our once vast resources into a social and economic calamity....
PROF. JOHN O. BEATY, The Iron Curtain Over America, cite. W. La Varre, American Legion Magazine, August 1951.
Some of my best friends are Communists. FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSEVELT.
I have said this before, but I shall say it again, and again, and again. Your boys are not going to be sent into any foreign wars! (America elected FDR 3-weeks later.)
FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT, 1940.
The whole story of Germany's appeal for negotiations and our curt refusal and severance of diplomatic relations was not published in 1937 and 1938 when Germany made her appeal, but was withheld from the public until ferreted out by the House Committee on un-American Activities after WWII... and released to the press more than 10-years after the facts were
163

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
so criminally suppressed.
DR. JOHN O. BEATY, Colonel U.S. Army Intelligence.
The victory of Communism in the world would be far more dangerous to the United States than the victory of Fas- cism. There has never been the slightest danger that the people of this country would ever embrace Bundism or Naziism... But Communism masquerades, often successfully, under the guise of democracy.
SEN. HOWARD TAFT, Human Events, 28 March 1951.
What has been called the “Jewish problem” is seen for the first time. Not race, not religion, not ethics, not nationality, not political allegiance, but something that includes them all, sepa- rating the JEW from the West — Culture.
FRANCIS PARKER YOCKEY, Imperium.
There is overwhelming evidence that Hitler did not want a European war. He made many attempts to convince Britain to join Germany in the destruction of Communism, the Soviet, and re-unification of Aryan Europe. But, the ILLUMINATI — not the English people — control Britain. In America, the Polish Ambassador, Count Jerzy Potacki, complained that American radio, film and press were “almost 100% JEWISH controlled,” and they “clamored for war against Germany.” They wanted to exacerbate the Polish Corridor dispute with Hitler, which he was negotiating. Potacki identified the “Americans” behind this campaign as Herbert Lehman, JEW, Governor of New York; Bernard Baruch, JEW, advisor to the President; Henry Morganthau, JEW, Sec'y Treasury; Felix Frankfurter, JEW, U.S. SupCrt. Rabbi Steven Wise. They acted, Potacki said, as defenders of
164

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
democracy but were “connected by unbreakable ties to inter- national JEWRY.”
Following the declaration of war against Germany (WWII) an ominous pause developed. Both sides haunted by ghosts of WWI waited, hoping for someone, something to prevent another blood-bath. Up front the “enemies” frat- ernized. David Irving (Churchill's War), documents the PM's frustration with the “Phoney War.” He sought blood, and glory — and he had promises to keep. His advisor, Professor Frederick Lindemann, “German” JEW, proposed that the British initiate terror bombing of civilians. This proposal was given “top priority by the British Government.” Hitler, who had inveighed against air campaigns against civilian targets, would be forced to retaliate.
Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain stated that “America and the world JEWS had forced England into war.”
JAMES FORRESTAL, U.S. Sec. Nav., The Forrestal Diaries.
Initially, “Churchill's War", went badly for Britain. On cue, Chaim Weizmann, JEW, ZIONIST, the ILLUMINATI point-man, once again slithers onto the scene.
We managed to bring the United States into the First World War and if you tow our line over Palestine and the JEW- ISH fighting force, then we can persuade the JEWS of the United States to drag the United States into it again this time. WEIZMANN letter to Churchill, Weizmann Archives, Tel Aviv.
165

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
JEW success is measured by the number of crosses marking Aryan dead in battlefield cemeteries stretched across the globe.
With this glimpse, denied us by the MEDIA, of the ILLUMINATI’S order-of-battle, i.e, the POWER OF MONEY; SPIROCHETES OF JEW SYPHILIS; and the intertwining of MARXISM/LIBERALISM/JUDAISM we are now better able to understand the HOLOCAUST HOAX in context. L’INFAMIE!
The “HOLOCAUST” is defined as: The Extermination of about 6-Million or more JEWS Resultant of NAZI Policy.
Since WWII, literally tons of evidence relating to the “HOLOCAUST” has been studied by world-class scholars. There is NO evidence supporting the “HOLOCAUST” as defined:
THERE WAS NO POLICY TO MASS MURDER JEWS. NO ORDER WAS GIVEN TO MASS MURDER JEWS. THERE WAS NO BUDGET TO CARRY OUT SUCH A POLICY. THERE WERE NO MEANS (GAS CHAMBERS, etc.) TO CARRY OUT MASS MURDERS.
Revisionist Historians have concluded that a total of about 300-thousand JEWS died of all causes during WWII. There was no JEW “HOLOCAUST.” There was a German Holocaust!
“HOLOCAUST” LIES were invented for the following reasons:
166

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
1) Initial Phase (c.1930): Invent German atrocities to condition America for war. Create JEW solidarity behind ZIONISM. Cover-up Bolshevik JEW atrocities in Lenin Russia.
2) WW II Phase (c.1940): Invent “HOLOCAUST” to transform Germany into a PARIAH among nations; justify incinerating Germany; justify ex post facto Nuremberg trials. Hang, thus silence, German leadership.
3) Post War Phase (on-going): Cover-up ILLUMINATI activities.. Cover-up JEW/ALLIES WWI & WWII atroci- ties/treason. Provide a raison d'etre for “missing” European JEWS (now in U.S.A.). Extort 100+ Billion dollars in “repa- rations” from Germany. Discredit WESTERN CIVILIZA- TION before the World. Paralyze the WEST'S WILL to act in its own interest. Create The United Nations. Allow JEWS to dominate U.S.A. Instill guilt among children of the WEST, thus lowering resistance to drugs, immorality, misce- genation, Marxism, and other forms of JEW SYPHILIS. Equate love of race, family, Nation, with Nazis, ergo: “hate- ful.” Establish the State of Israel: genocide of Palestinians. Create “HOLOCAUST” religion as a cottage industry. Lay the foundations for WW III.
MANKIND, initially, was infected with “HOLO- CAUST” SYPHILIS during JEWISH HIGHHOLY DAYS, October 1942. Rabbi Steven Wise, President of The World JEWISH Congress (WJC), and confidant of U.S. Presidents Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt, publicly announced: Germany is engaged in a program to exterminate European
167

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
JEWS...but for economic reasons had abandoned mass gas- sings in favor of injecting poison by syringe! Millions of JEW corpses were then rendered into bars of soap!
The Allies (U.S.A., U.S.S.R., Great Britain and France), offering NO bona fide evidence, issued a Joint Declaration, December 1943, supporting the outrageous LIES mouthed by rabbi Wise. In private high-ranking British and American officials, as we now know, unsuccessfully attempted to quash the Declaration which stank of WWI atrocity propaganda (including the soap lie) for which the Allies had apologized to Germany.
Let it ALWAYS be remembered it was RABBI STEPHEN WISE, Khazar leader of American JEWRY, and of the WORLD JEWISH CONGRESS, who created the “HOLOCAUST” HOAX, abetted by Allied Leaders (Churchill, Roosevelt, and Eisenhower) whom Bernard Baruch, JEW, negotiated with, groomed, and elevated to center stage in the ILLUMINATI war to destroy the West.
From time immemorial...the Jews have known better than any others how falsehood and calumny can be exploited... that in the BIG LIE there is always a certain force of credibility ...Is not their very existence founded on one great lie... that they are a religious community and not a race... Schopenhauer called the Jews “The Great Master of Lies.”
ADOLPH HITLER, Chancellor of Germany, Mein Kampf.
About two months after the Joint Declaration the Brit- ish Ministry of Information dispached (2-29-44) a Top
168

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Secret letter to the British Broadcasting Corp. (BBC), and to high-ranking ministers of the Church of England on the need to divert public attention away from Red Army atroci- ties by faking Axis war crimes.
We know the methods of rule employed by the Bolshevik Dictator in Russia (U.S.S.R.) itself... from the writings and speeches of the prime minister himself during the last 20-years. We know how the Red Army behaved in Poland in 1920 and in Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Galacia, and Bessarabia only recently. We must, therefore, take into account how the Red Army will behave when it overruns Central Europe. Unless precautions are taken, the obviously inevitable horrors which will result will throw an undue strain on public opinion in this country. We cannot reform the Bolsheviks but we can do our best to save them — and ourselves (“Perfidious Albion!”) — from the con- sequences of their acts. The disclosure of the last quarter cen- tury will render more denials unconvincing. The only alternative to denial is to distract public attention from the whole subject. Experience has shown the best distraction is atrocity propaganda directed against the enemy... your coopera- tion is therefore earnestly sought to distract public attention from, the doings of the Red Army by your whole-hearted sup- port of various charges against the Germans and Japanese which have and will be put into circulation by the Ministry. ZUNDEL “HOLOCAUST TRIALS", Defense Exhibit, Tor- onto (1-7- 85).
It has been observed quite accurately that the heart of the “HOLOCAUST” HOAX is the AUSCHWITZ- BIRKENAU-MAJDANEK “Death Camp” complex. Here the greatest number of JEWS (4-Million) allegedly were murdered: Here the alleged NAZI killing apparatus was most
169

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
efficient. Here Germany allegedly revealed her diabolic racial soul. “Eye-witness” testimony by the many Auschwitz survi- vors provided the Nuremberg Tribunal with “moral” justifi- cation required to pronounce Nazi Germany guilty of “Crimes Against Humanity.” At Auschwitz the “HOLO- CAUST” myth became Reality, and Germany, cultural gem of the West, became a Pariah among World Nations.
In Judgment at Nuremberg the International Military Tribunal quoted at length from the Rudolf Hoess Affidavit to support the extermination HOAX. Yet, Sergeant Bernard Clarke, British Intelligence, described how he and five other soldiers brutally tortured Hoess (4-5-46), former comman- dant of Auschwitz, to obtain his “confession", in which Hoess states: JEWS were being exterminated as early as 1941 in three camps: Treblinka, Belsec and Wolzek; and 2-3-Mil- lion JEWS perished at Auschwitz.
“Certainly, I signed a statement that I killed two and a half million JEWS. I could just as easily have said five million JEWS. There are certain methods by which any confession may be obtained, whether it is true or not.”
RUDOLF HOESS, NAZI, before he was hanged.
While under torture, and threatened that his wife and children would be deported to Siberia, Hoess invented the name “Wolzek” to inform posterity (YOU) that his “confes- sion” was false: the extermination camp “Wolzek” never existed!
170

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The Nuremberg Tribunal also regarded as essential the testimony of Rudolf Vrba, JEW, who was prisoner for two years in Majdanek and Auschwitz before escaping. His dic- tated report to the JEWISH Council of Slovakia, corroborat- ing the “HOLOCAUST” scenario, formed the basis of the War Refugee Board Report (1944). Professor Vrba, who wrote the autobiography, “I Cannot Forgive", now teaches in British Columbia (died 2000). Book reviews praised Vrba for his “meticulous and almost fanatic respect for accuracy.” But during the ZUNDEL TRIALS, Vrba confessed he had fabri- cated his entire “gas chamber” thesis out of thin air. He had never seen a gas chamber. “I have taken licentia poetarium,” he whimpered. This typical JEW “eye-witness", was believed at Nuremberg when he calculated that in 24-months (April 1942- April 1944) 1,765,000 JEWS were “gassed” at Birkenau alone including 150,000 JEWS from France! Today, all historians (including “HOLOCAUST” expert, Serge Klarsfeld, JEW, in his “Memorial to the Deportation of the Jews from France") agree that fewer than 75,000 “French” JEWS had been deported to ALL German camps. The reason Vrba saw no gas chambers is that there were NO gas chambers — anywhere — as you will soon learn. Never- theless, the “Spielbergs” continue to LIE to our children.
At Nuremberg, Chief U.S. Prosecutor, Robert Jackson (Married to a JEWESS), announced to the world that Ger- mans used a “newly invented device” to instantly “vaporize” 20,000 JEWS near Auschwitz “...in such a way that there was no trace left of them.” The Washington. D.C. “Daily
171

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
News” (2-2-45) quoted “eye-witness reports” that Germans, at Auschwitz, used an “electric conveyer belt on which hun- dreds of persons would be electrocuted simultaneously...then moved on into furnaces. They were burned almost instanta- neously, producing fertilizer for nearby cabbage fields.” All proven lies. Arnold Friedman, JEW, Auschwitz survivor, tes- tifying for the Crown (Prosecution) in the recent Canadian Zundel trials, stated under oath that “fourteen foot flames” and clouds of smoke erupted from crematoria chimneys; that greasy smoke and the stench of burning human flesh hung over the camp for weeks; that one could tell whether skinny Polish JEWS or fat Hungarian JEWS were being gassed by the color of the smoke! When the Defense producedTopf & Sons in Erfurt patent descriptions of the Auschwitz cremato- ria, it showed — as with ALL modern crematoria — the impossibility of it emitting smoke, flames and stench. Thus, demolishing “eye-witness” descriptions appearing in virtually all “HOLOCAUST” horror stories.
Auschwitz, throughout the war, was subjected to intense AERIAL SURVEILLANCE because Buna rubber, a German patent, and other war materials were manufactured there. State-of-the-art, detailed, AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHS of the Auschwitz complex reveal no lines of prisoners awaiting exe- cution; no piles of corpses; no huge stacks of coal; no chim- neys belching flames and smoke nor other signs of mass- execution described by JEW “eye- witnesses"; and congenital liars like TAMUDISTS Elie Weisel; Simon Wiesenthal; Hol- lywood's Steven Spielberg, et al.
172

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
IVAN LAGACE, manager of a large CREMATORY, Calgary, Canada, testified under oath (Zundel Trials) that the Auschwitz cremation story is technically impossible. “It is preposterous” and “beyond the realm of possibility” that 10,000 or 20,000 corpses could have been burned daily in open pits and crematoriums at Auschwitz. For Professor Raul Hillberg, JEW, to declare 46 retorts at Birkenau could cre- mate 4000 bodies per day is “ludicrous.” Lagace testified that a maximum of 184 bodies, per day, could have been cre- mated at Birkenau. It takes about 21⁄2-hrs. just to burn one corpse. Crematories cannot run 24-hours straight time.
In 1988, FRED A. LEUCHTER carried out on-site forensic examinations of alleged GAS CHAMBERS at Aus- chwitz-Birkenau- Majdanek “Death Camps” in Poland. Leuchter, Reg. Engineer, State of Massachusettes, is consider America's foremost expert on gas chambers. He is consultant to the State of Missouri, and South Carolina penal systems. At the ZUNDEL TRIALS, in sworn testimony, substanti- ated by video-tapes shot on location, and in a technical report, Leuchter demolished the “HOLOCAUST” HOAX by proving the sites were not used and could not have been used as execution gas chambers: their construction was totally inadequate: not properly sealed or ventilated, with primitive plumbing, and no way to efficiently introduce the gas. If the alleged “gas chambers” had been used escaping fumes would have killed German patients in the adjacent hospital, prisoners at work, and German camp personnel. Independent laboratory analysis of forensic samples Leuchter
173

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
had removed from walls and floors of the “gas chambers” proved that the pesticide ZYKLON-B (hydro- cyanic acid) had not been used — as reported by eye-witnesses — to gas millions of JEWS at the Auschwitz complex. Leuchter pointed out that traces of Cyanide (Prussic Acid), if intro- duced into rocks, concrete, and metal, would last for eons of time.
DR. W.B. LINDSEY, a research chemist for 33-years with DuPont Corp., testified that based on a thorough on- site examination of the Auschwitz complex: “I have come to the conclusion that no one was willfully or purposely killed with Zyklon-B in this manner. I consider it absolutely tech- nically impossible.”
A confidential forensic examination and report commis- sioned by the Auschwitz State Museum (JEWS), and con- ducted by the Institute of Forensic Research, Krakow, has confirmed Leuchter's findings that only minimal or no traces of cyanide compound can be found in the sites alleged to have been gas-chambers.
WALTER LUFTL, Austrian engineer, and former presi- dent of Austria's Professional Association of Engineers, con- ducted on-site investigations of the Auschwitz complex. In a 1992 report he said the alleged mass extermination of JEWS in Auschwitz “chambers” was “technically impossible.”
At Auschwitz, but probably overall, more JEWS were killed by ‘natural causes’ than by ‘unnatural’ ones.
174

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
DR. A. MAYER, JEW, Princeton U. “Why Did the Heavens Not Darken?”
Britain's chief rabbi wants the “6-Million” figure revised: Its important to find out how many people presumed dead are still alive. It is far more important to unite families than to live with a figure arrived at quite arbitrarily.
DR. JONATHAN H. SACKS, JEW, The Crescent Magazine, 5- 15-96
For 45-years following WWII the monument at Aus- chwitz read:
“FOUR MILLION PEOPLE SUFFERED AND DIED HERE AT THE HANDS OF NAZI MURDERERS BETWEEN 1940-1945.”
In 1982, Pope John Paul genuflected before the monu- ment and blessed the “4-Million dead.” Embarrassingly, he received no hint from Yahweh that 8-years later Yad Vashem Holocaust Center, Israel; and the Auschwitz State Museum, would concede: “The 4-Million figure was greatly exagger- ated.” The death toll inscribed on the monument was hastily removed. JEWS suggested 1.1-MILLION dead was more likely.
Despite an almost 3-Million reduction in the number of JEWS "murdered" the Cabalistic 6-Million figure remains inviolate to keep intact Germany's reparation payments to Israel. ODDLY, it seems to infuriate JEWS to learn their rel- atives were NOT gassed, but are alive and well — many employed in America's mass-media, and the U.S. State Department.
175

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
Then(1995), Russia released the official Auschwitz Death Registers (one month missing) which lists a grand total of 74,000 deaths from all causes! (including German personnel who died there)
None of the above reported by the Marxist/LIBERAL/ JEW media, (Please see Chapt. 10, Parasitism, USA).
You may recall the testimony of Joseph G. Burg, JEW, witness for the Defense, Zundel Trials. Burg stated that JEW "HOLOCAUST" survivors invented the gas-chamber sto- ries:
If those JEWS had sworn before a rabbi wearing a skullcap then those false statements, those sick statements, would go down by 99.5%, because the superficial oath was not morally binding on JEWS.
J. G. BURG
...my promises (to a Gentile) shall not bind... my vows shall not be reckoned vows... nor my oaths oaths... every vow which I make in the future shall be null from this Day of Atonement until the next.
TALMUD: Kol Nidre Oath.
Elie Wiesel JEW, Nobel Peace Prize winner, President Clinton confident, testified that for months after German troops in the Ukraine shot JEW partisans “geysers of blood spurted from their graves and the earth trembled” (“Spielber- gism”).
A German court, ruling for the defense, in a case involving the authenticity of ANNE FRANK’S DIARY, found that the Diary had been written by one individual —
176

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
presumably Anne Frank. Several years later German Federal Crimes Office (BKA) certified that extensive sections of the Diary had been written in ball-point pen — a device not marketed until 1950!
This deception, in addition to discrepancies and impos- sibilities within the Diary itself, reveal the LIE. Anne was simply exploited — as are all children who find the Diary mandatory reading at their schools. David Irving, British his- torian, calls the Diary “worthless research material.” We should note, here, that Anne and her father were imprisoned at Auschwitz. When Soviet troops approached she was sent to Bergen-Belsen for her safety. Unfortunately she died there of typhus. Her father, Otto Frank, JEW, survived. With no visible source of income he died many years later in Switzer- land — a wealthy man.
Yad Vashem Holocaust Remembrance Authority con- cedes that SOAP was NOT rendered from JEW corpses. “Why give them something to use against the truth?” asks VIP Schmuel Krakpowski, JEW.
The Allied War Commission determined early on there were NO execution gas-chambers in any of the 13 concen- tration camps located in Germany and Austria. An official document to that effect is signed by the Commission, dated 1 October 1948 (official copies available). The so-called “DEATH CAMPS” were conveniently located behind the Iron Curtain. Investigation of these camps was not officially permitted until the collapse of the U.S.S.R. in 1990. By then
177

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
the “HOLOCAUST” was accepted as TRUTH by the goyim sheep.
What about all the corpse photographs TV threatens you with daily?
During the final months of the war Allies took com- mand of the skies. Highways, bridges, railroads, power- plants, live-stock, farmers in their fields were targeted. “Kill whatever moves!” (Gen. Chuck Yaeger, USAF, denounced that order as an atrocity). German transport was severely cur- tailed. Vital supplies were prevented from reaching the camps. As the Eastern Front rolled back prisoners from those areas, especially women, opted for transfers to German camps rather than fall into Soviet hands. Bergen-Belsen, for example, designed to accommodate 3,000, was inundated with over 50,000 prisoners. Systems in ALL the camps broke down. When the Allies took over they were greeted with hor- ror scenes (replayed countless times on screen, stage, and television): the sick and dying and emaciated corpses covered the ground. Tragic. But they had not been murdered as we have been conditioned to believe. They died slowly from starvation, lack of medicine, and disease — TYPHUS raged through almost all camps. To complete the macabre scene the U.S. Army 45th Division, liberators of Dachau, gathered together 560 uniformed German guards, nurses and doctors and machine-gunned them to death.
The INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE of the RED CROSS (ICRC), and the Catholic Church, whose members frequented all camps, reported NO mass executions, and do
178

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
NOT mention gas chambers. Adolph Hitler, a Catholic, has not been excommunicated! Churchill, Truman, Eisenhower, Marshall, De Gaulle, and other Allied leaders DO NOT mention a “HOLOCAUST” in their memoirs.
The U.S. State Department's refusal, 1939, to permit JEWS on board the passenger ship St. Louis to disembark in U.S.A. territorial waters was, we now know, a smoke-screen to divert America's attention from the mass immigration, sub rosa, of JEWS to our shores. The vast majority of Americans, as people everywhere, didn't want Europe’s JEWRY. But Europe’s JEWRY wanted the United States. Franklin D. Roosevelt, effete Ivy League traitor, was fond of saying, “Some of my best friends are Communists.” He had plenty of them. Before, during, and after WWII U.S. Liberty ships and cargo vessels, after unloading troops and supplies in European ports, returned to the United States crammed with “gassed” KHAZARS. They simply disembarked, fading into the alley-ways, undergoing no naturalization process. And they weren’t poor waifs. As described, above, Harry Dexter White, JEW, Under-Secretary of the Treasury, stole U.S. Treasury engraving plates, then gave them to the Soviet Union which printed millions (billions?) of dollars in U. S. paper currency. This money found its way into the pockets of the new “American” JEWS. After the war, White, exposed as a Soviet agent, was scheduled to appear before a Senate investigating committee when he conveniently died! FDR’s confidant Henry Morganthau, Jr., JEW, Sec. U. S. Treasury, sponsored the Morganthau Plan, which called for transplant-
179

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
ing German industry to the Soviet Union. When told this would result in the mass starvation of Germans he replied: “Who the hell cares about the German people?”
Frederick Lindemann (Lord Cherwell), JEW, Churchill’s Zionist watchdog, cared a great deal! Only three months before Germany’s surrender (5-5-45), acting upon Lindemann’s directives, British and American planes attacked DRESDEN, Germany (2-13-45), a defenseless city packed with refugees, which was observing Christian ASH Wednesday. Over 200,000 men, women, and children were incinerated in fire-storms generated by concussion and phos- phorus bombs. Later, photographs of the victims, stacked like cordwood, were super-imposed on Auschwitz “Death Camp” photographs (more Spielbergisms). Most of the air- men were unaware that Saxony was the heartland of their own Anglo-Saxon ancestors.
“Mad Dog” Ilya Ehrenburg, JEW, Minister of Soviet Propaganda under Stalin, promoted the rape of German women by promising the troops “that blonde German hag is in for a hard time!” He sought the extermination of the entire German people. “Germans are not human beings... nothing gives us so much pleasure as German corpses!” (Pravda 4-14-45).
Soldiers of the Red Army! Kill the Germans! Kill ALL Ger- mans! Kill! Kill! Kill!
ILYA EHRENBURG, who received the Order of Lenin, and the Stalin Prize. He willed his papers to the Yad Vashem Holo- caust Museum, Israel.
180

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
The interests of the revolution require the physical annihi- lation of the bourgeoisie class... Without mercy, without spar- ing, we will kill our enemies in scores of thousands... let them drown themselves in their own blood. For the blood of Lenin, and Uritzky, Ziniviev and Volodarsky, let their be floods of blood of the bourgeosie — more blood! As much as possible! GRIGORY APFELBAUM (Zinoviev), JEW, Soviet Secret Police.
The longer the rotten bourgeoisie society lives, the more barbaric will anti-Semitism (anti-JEW) become everywhere. LEON TROTSKY, JEW, Supreme Commander Soviet Red Army.
General DWIGHT EISENHOWER (appropriately named “The Swedish Jew” by fellow West Point cadets) was promoted over the heads of many more qualified officers for a reason. He agreed, apparently, to exchange America’s honor quid pro quo for 5-Stars and glory. After the war, at the dedi- cation of a New York City park honoring the Bernard Baruch family, key-note speaker Gen. Dwight D. Eisen- hower, USA-Ret., admitted:
As a young unknown major I took the wisest step of my life. I consulted Mr. Baruch.
(General Dwight D. Eisenhower, U.S. Army), cited by A.K. CHESTERTON, op. cit., The New Unhappy Lords.
Bernard Baruch, KEHILLA, became wealthy dealing in war materiel (“A little bird told him”). Wars were his spe- cialty. During WWII, he was called “the most powerful fig- ure in America” (Congressional Record). Winston Churchill
181

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
also took that “wise step.” The mortgage on Winnie's Chartwell estate was inexplicably satisfied by South African gold dealer Sir Henry Strakosch, JEW (Baruch confidant) after Winnie had spent a week-end at Bernie’s NYC man- sion. Then came WWII (Pls. see: Churchill's War, by David Irving)
EISENHOWER dumbfounded and infuriated Allied generals when he ordered victorious American troops to HALT at the Elbe River, pursuant to his agreement with Bernie Baruch, KEHILLA, permitting JEWS and Asiatics, for the first time in history, to plunder and rape the very heart of Europe. This action divided Germany (bulwark of Christendom), precipitated the Cold War, and caused the murder of over 10-Million ethnic Germans following Ger- many’s unconditional surrender. America gave to the Marx- ists not only the ancient city of Berlin with its priceless archives, but also the important rocket production plant at Nordhausen, the great Zeiss optical and precision-instru- ment works at Jena; and the first Jet airplane plant at Kahla. Everywhere, America surrendered to the Marxists thousands of planes, tanks, and jet fighters, snorkel submarine plants, as well as research centers, scientific personnel, patents, and other treasures (Congressional Record, 3-19-1951). Captured German scientists, NOT the Soviets, beat the USA into space! JEWS (Beria, Andropov) had murdered all Gentile scientists. There was NO advanced technology. Soviets were incapable of producing engines for their own tanks much less sophisticated rockets and jet engines (the U.S. designed and
182

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
built almost all Soviet tank-engines enabling the USSR to win the key battle of Kursk). Arming the USSR with state- of-the-art technology, per Baruch/Roosevelt/Truman instructions, produced the Cold War — a banker's bonanza — pitting America’s pocketbook against the Soviet threat.
Eisenhower, his obligations in mind, treacherously ordered American and British troops to execute OPERA- TION KEELHAUL driving millions of Russian anti-Com- munists out of the United States and Europe into torture and death in the Soviet Union. Official Soviet statisticians (10-1- 1945) state a total of 5,236,130 anti-communists were turned over by Ike, and admitted that three-million of these were immediately murdered AFTER THE WAR. The vic- tims were anti-Communists: soldiers, prisoners of war, and men who had been recruited into American service, fighting valiantly under our flag; and civilians: old men, women and children who had tried to escape the BOLSHEVIKS. All had voluntarily surrendered to American forces after being prom- ised protection under articles of the Geneva Convention.
There have been few crimes in history more brutal and more extensive than this forced repatriation of anti-Commu- nists, to which Dwight Eisenhower committed the honor of the United States. Dragging the honor and reputation of our coun- try through pools of bloody betrayal....
ROBERT WELCH, The Politician, Pres, John Birch Society.
The MEDIA announced that 40-thousand Polish army officers and civilian elite had been murdered in KATYN
183

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
FOREST. Germans, accused of the crime, were sentenced at Nuremberg and imprisoned or hanged. Later, the Katyn Massacre was proven a BOLSHEVIK crime. The numbers murdered were reduced to 14,300. Evidence (as with the Czar's family) points to JEW RITUAL MURDERS.
Victims of the Nuremberg Trials were judged during the JEWISH HOLY DAYS and were hanged on HAHANNA RABA (16 October 1946), the day YAWEH pronounces final judgment.
While the Nuremberg Tribunal prepared to convict Germany for “Crimes Against Humanity,” U.S. planes dropped atomic bombs on defenseless Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, Japan, murdering over 110,000 non-combatants. As many died later of radiation poisoning.
The JEW against the Goy is allowed to rape, cheat, and perjure himself.
TALMUD: Babha Kama.
Israelis and American JEWS fully agree that the memory of the Holocaust is an indispensable weapon... one that must be used relentlessly against our common enemy... JEWISH organi- zations and individuals thus labor continuously to remind the world of it. In America the perpetuation of the Holocaust memory is now a $110-million-a-year enterprise, part of which is U.S. government funded.
MOSHE LEDHEM, JEW, Balaam’s Curse.
The British (Bank of England) offered to stop the war (1939-40) if Germany would agree to a Gold Standard and international usury. While Germany offered to stop the war if the British would allow her to develop her barter-trade system
184

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
and give her back some of her colonies and territory. C. C. VIETH, British Member of Parliament.
The sudden collapse of the U.S.S.R. (c.1990) provided public access to secret files; to so-called “Death Camps”; and to former Soviet agents. Continuing research, has resulted in Up-dated Statistics relating to JEW deaths during WWII:
The World Center of Jewish Documentation, Paris, incapable of telling the whole truth, has nonetheless revised figures downward, stating: 1,485,292 JEWS died of all causes in WWII. The World Jewish Congress, and Yad Vashem, insist that 6-Million JEWS were murdered by Ger- mans — yet they admit almost 3-Million fewer JEWS died at Auschwitz than previously claimed! Over 4-million JEWS claim reparation payments. However there were never more than 3-million JEWS under German control at any time.
Die Tat, Zurich(1-19-95), base their conclusions on sta- tis-tics provided by the International Committee of the Red Cross, places the total number of civilian dead (not all JEWS) resultant of NAZI political, religious, racial persecu- tion at 300,000 to 350,000.
Revisionist Historians conclude that the TOTAL num- ber of JEWS dead from all causes during WWII are 250,000 to 300,000. The majority of these died from typhus. (See, The Patton Papers (pp 353-4) in re JEW filthiness).
To put these figures in perspective remember that about 700,000 civilians died during the siege at Leningrad, and over 200,000 died at Dresden (“strafe everything that
185

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
moves!”). It is estimated that over 10 to 15-Million Germans died during WWII.
WORLD JEW POPULATION Published Figures 1938 A.D. 16,599,250 (The World Almanac3)
1948 A.D. 15,600,000 to 18,700,000 (New York Times)
Professor Arthur R. Butz, Northwestern University, Evanston Illinois, was the first to professionally research and document European JEW population shifts during WWII and the impossibility of the so-called “HOLOCAUST.” In his highly regarded book, The Hoax of the Twentieth Century, 1975, Butz concludes that about one-million JEWS died of all causes during WWII. He wrote his tome 10-years before the Zundel Trials which, among other revelations, demol- ished the execution gas-chambers myth.
“HOLOCAUST” MEMORIALS4 erected by ILLUMI- NATI all over the World intended to cast a permanent Stigma on the Aryan Race stand instead as
MONUMENTS TO MANKIND'S CONGENITAL LIARS: THE JEWISH RACE.
3. AlsoseeGuinessBookofRecords.
4. HitleranticipatedtheJEW“BigLie,”Chapt.X,MeinKampf.
 186

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
Throughout history, JEWS have been diagnosed as con- genital LIARS. It is not surprising to find their holy book bearing false witness, charging the Romans with committing a HOLOCAUST:
The TALMUD...(claims) that the number of JEWS killed by the Romans after the fortress (Bethar) fell (135 A.D.) was 4- Billion, “or as some say” 40-million, while the MIDRASH RABBAH reports 800-Million martyred JEWS. In order to reassure us that these figures are given in earnest the necessarily accompanying events are set forth: The blood of the slain JEWS reached to the nostrils of the Romans’ horses and then, like a tidal wave, plunged a distance of one mile or four miles to the sea, carrying large boulders along with it, and staining the sea a distance of four miles out. The JEWISH children of Bethar, according to TALMUDIC literature were of course not spared by the Romans, who were said to have wrapped each one in his scroll and burned all of them, the number of these school chil- dren having been either 64-Million or at least 150,000.... ARTHUR R. BUTZ, Assoc. Prof. Engineering, Northwestern U., The Hoax of the Twentieth Century.
93 CHOOSE SUICIDE BEFORE NAZI SHAME
93 Jewish girls and young Jewish women, the pupils of the teacher of Beth Jacob School of Warsaw, Poland, chose mass suicide to escape being forced into prostitution by German sol- diers, according to a letter from the teacher, made public yester- day by Rabbi Seth Jung, Jewish Center, New York City. ASSOCIATED PRESS, 8 January 1943.
I lied. I lie all the time. I was brought up to lie. I was told that is the way to get along in life.
MONICA LEWINSKI, JEWESS, Bill Clinton's desk mate, 1998.
187

KILL THE BEST GENTILES
History shows us that JEWS are compulsive LIARS. It is a genetic characteristic that all JEWS share. All JEWS know the "HOLOCAUST" is a lie — because they understand one another. Therefore all JEWS must be held accountable. Pon- der carefully the following contemporary newspaper item:
PBS DOCUMENTARY CLAIMS BLACK U.S. ARMY UNIT FREED JEWISH INMATES FROM GER- MAN CONCENTRATION CAMPS. NICE STORY BUT NOT TRUE SAY THE SOLDIERS.
It was a rare moment: Jessie Jackson surrounded by white- haired Holocaust survivors. The occasion was a black-Jewish celebration of “Liberators,” the PBS documentary about all black U.S. Army units that, according to the film, helped cap- ture Buchenwald and Dachau. The sponsors of the screening TIME-WARNER and a host of rich and influential New York- ers billed the film as an important tool in rebuilding of a black- Jewish alliance... E.G.McConnell, an original member of the 761st Tank Battalion (featured in the film) says... “It's a lie — we were no where near those camps when they were liberated.” Nina Rosenbloom who co-produced the film says Mr. McCon- nell can't be trusted. “You can't speak to him because he’s snapped. He was hit in the head with shrapnel and was severely brain damaged.” Mr. McConnell, a retired mechanic for Trans World Airlines laughs when told of her statement. “If I was so disturbed why did they use me in the film?” he asks. “It's totally inaccurate,” says Charles Gates, the former captain who com- manded C Company. “The men couldn't have been there because the camp was 60-miles away from where we were on liberation day.” According to him tanks of the 761st were assigned to the 71st Infantry Division whose fighting path was 100-160 kilometers away from the camps. Several Holocaust survivors are quoted in the film saying they were liberated by
188

JAMES W. VON BRUNN
blacks in those units. Ms. Rosenbloom angrily denounces the film’s critics as Holocaust revisionists and racists. “These people are of the same mentality that says the Holocaust didn't happen !”... The “Liberators” fueled by the public relations success is gaining momentum. Copies of the documentary will be distrib- uted to all New York City junior and senior high schools. The cost of the schools project is being picked up by investment banker Felix Rohatyn... although several philanthropists are vying for the honor of buying tapes for the schools. The film will be used to “examine the effects of racism on African-Amer- ican soldiers and on Jews who were in concentration camps... to explain the role of African-American soldiers in liberating Jews from Nazi concentration camps and to reveal the involvement of Jews as ‘soldiers’ in the civil-rights movement.” Peggy Tish- man, a former president of the Jewish Community Relations Council is sticking by the documentary. She says, “The docu- mentary is good for the Holocaust. Why would anybody want to exploit the idea that the film is a fraud? What we’re trying to do is make New York a better place for you and me to live.” She claims the accuracy of the film is not the issue. “What is impor- tant is the way we can bring Jews and Blacks into dialogue. There are a lot of truths that are very necessary. This,” she says, “is not a truth that is necessary!”
JEFFREY GOLDBERG, JEW, The New Republic.
The greatest deception is self-deception. We will explore that JEWISH vulnerability by examining GENET- ICS. For it is NATURE that inevitably will destroy YAH- WEH’S “Chosen People.”
THIS IS THE END OF CHAPTER SIX OF TWELVE CHAPTERS. PLEASE PURCHASE THE ENTIRE BOOK AT OUR WEBSITE:
http://www.holywesternempire.org 189
