Thank you for all the good time anon. 


Link to the live-stream: https://www.twitch.tv/spilljuice 


There is one person I want to thank especially. That’s Mark, former BO of 8ch /v/ and owner of 
vch.moe. His gracious donation of 0,1 bitcoin helped me a lot. He should be really pissed right now, of 
course. I wanted to kill only mudslimes and promised, I wouldn’t name him. You know what? 

Fuck you, you filthy jew. 

If this person even exist in RL. He could be a CIAnigger trying to radicalize and set up people online, 
for all that I know. I mean, why would a fucking jew give away money for free? 


A short pre-action report 


The Weapons 


On Man: 


Luty SMG 9mm Parabellum 


1x 15 round magazine in the gun, 2x 20 round mags on the right shoulder and 15x 15 round mags in 
pouches on the chest-rig. 
Loaded with 124 grain soft lead bullets and 7 grain chlorate powder (65/35 potassium chlorate/sugar) 


The gun with the potentially highest amount of firepower. The design has low reliability because it 
lacks an extractor. A stuck cartridge needs to be pulled manually with a tool or be pushed out from the 
front (what could possibly go wrong) with a rod. This problem gets amplified by the fact that I only 
have dirty combusting improvised chlorate powder, which will foul the chamber extremely fast. 

The optic is a cheap 30€ red-dot sight. Effective range is 25m. 


A single point sling will secure the gun without interfering with the action cam on the shoulder. 


12 gauge Slam-Bang shotgun with tactical front grip 


35 shells with 10x 00 buck and 5g black powder, 30 on a belt, 5 clipped to the gun 


Backup gun # when the Luty shits itself. Absurdly reliable and easy to use, even under great stress, but 
slow to reload and will produce copious amounts of smoke. Effective range is 10m. 
Doubles as war club. 


Glock combat knife 
It’s a knife. You know what a knife looks like? 
For stabbing things with the pointy end. 


Single shot .38 special pistol 


20 cartridges with 158 grain soft lead bullets and 7 grain finely ground match-head powder 


Protection against getting interrupted while reloading or clearing a malfunction. 
Can be used to finish of injured foes. Effective range is 5m. 


A modified version of the .22Ir Western Pistol design. 

The non-rifled barrel is made from 15x3 and 20x2,5mm seamless pipes (S235). Side plates and closing 
lever made from 5mm mild steel. Hammer, trigger, barrel lug, extractor, breach plate, grip frame and 
trigger guard made from 10mm mild steel. 3x20mm pins are used to hold everything together. 
M6x20mm screws used as pivot screw and to secure the firing pin. Firing pin made from 6mm mild 
round steel and a 2,5 mm drill bit shank. M4x20mm screws hold the hammer and trigger. The main 
spring is made from an old Luty spring (10mm outside diameter 1mm wire). The wood for the grip 
plates is ammonia-gassed, oiled oak (same for the guns above). 


Finicky to reload, as the extractor was originally designed for .22Ir and will pivot to far if opened to 
wide, allowing the new cartridge to slide over it, preventing closure. 
A small aluminum strip (from an old dust mask) around the firing pin serves as makeshift safety. 


Car guns: 


Plastic Luty 


Compact design for use while driving and as a second backup. Even has a (badly) rifled barrel. Not for 
high intensity fire, as the printed PLA feed ramp can melt. Magazines are theoretically interchangeable 
with the steel Luty. 

The 5 plastic magazines are highly unreliable/unsafe and will be used last. 

Building instruction and .stl files are in the full upload. 


Short Slam-Bang shotgun 


A second belt with 30 shells is stored in the car. 


Small Slam-Bang with a rather basic stock( .stl file in upload). For use on the cramped driver seat and 
as backup if I lose the other one. 


Both shotguns are made from 28 mm OD 3,5mm wall thickness and 35mm OD 3mm wall thickness 
seamless pipes (S235 steel). A 28mm diameter 20mm long steel rod is welded as plug. A M5 screw is 
used as a firing pin (1,5-2mm longer than the plug and sharpened at a 45° angle to a 1mm thick point). 


Fallback weapons: 


Smith-Carbine 


with 140 rounds, loaded with 2,4gram/40 grain sulfur-less black powder (100g KNO3 + 24g charcoal) 
9 cartridges made from brass (heavy, but reliable), 30 from cardboard (somewhat reliable, but time- 
consuming to manufacture per hand), and around 100 from 3d-printed PLA (completely untested, see 
stream for results, .stl for them in the full upload) 


The most reliable and accurate firearm in my arsenal. The only gun with an effective range greater then 
25m. I use it only if the other guns malfunction or I run out of ammo for them, since the whole deal is 
to show the viability of improvised guns. After all some of you fellows don't have the luxury of 
industrial-made equipment. 


A longsword (yes, really) 


A gothic 15. century 1 %4-hander, to be specific. As much a weapon as a shitpost. I intend to use it as 
last resort or to humiliate the enemy. 


A secret weapon 
View the live-stream to find out more. 


Extra ammunition 
Around 400 rounds 9mm, 130 rounds .38 Special ,70 rounds 12 gauge and 130 rounds .50 are used as 
iron reserve. 


Hand grenades 


From left to right and up to down: 


Type Amount Filler Weight 
Fragmentation grenades filled with 10mm steel balls | 10 200g “E” Filler 1200g 
- iL 100g ETN 1100g 
Pipe bombs made from 1 % pipe fittings 5 150g black powder | 1050¢ 
Nail bombs 2 600g “E” Filler 1200¢g 
- 2 300g “E” Filler 500g 
- 1 500g “E” Filler 800¢ 
- 2 1000g “E” Filler 1600¢g 
Breaching charge 1 1700g “E” Filler 2000g 
Anti material charge 1 1000g thermite 1100g 
Smoke grenade 1 250g KNO3:sugar | 300¢ 
Detonation caps 25 (17 shown) |0,12g SADS; 8g 


1,25g ETN 


Most grenades are filled with a simplified formula of the “E” Filler from the book “Expedient Hand 
Grenades - Dmitrieff” made as followed: 

per 100g: 60g Nh4NO3 dissolved in 10ml hot water, add 10,5g NaNO3, 2,5g starch and 0,5g urea, mix 
20g Al powder (the cheap flaked, silvery kind used in colors) in and stir 10 min. Both my Nh4NO3 and 
NaNO3 are only fertilizer grade pure(impurities: Ca(NO3)2, Mg(NO3)2, MgO, CaCO3, NaOH, 
NaCO3) and have a considerable amount of water, use 55g and 10g and additional 5m! water if yours is 
dry and pure. 

I needed to prepare the grenades months in advance. That’s bad, because most ammonium nitrate 
explosives get insensitive/inert when they take water out of the air. This mixture is designed with water 
in mind, so I hope that it will still be sensitive enough to detonate. If not, well, fuck. 


The det-caps are made from 65mm long 8mm OD x 0,5 wall thickness brass pipe, filled with 1,25g 
ETN and pressed as followed: first press 0,5g with both hands via vice, second 0,5g with 1 hand, last 
0,25 gram only light hand pressed so that it won’t fall out. On top of that fill 0,1- 0,12g of unpressed 
SADS. Add a fuse and glue shut with white wood glue. 


Equipment 


Filming hardware 

A Samsung S8 fastened to the helmet will hopefully deliver an acceptable live-stream. 

A Firefly 8SE action cam on the right shoulder will record additional footage and serves as a backup. 
As you see, I like redundancy. 


Kevlar helmet 
Surplus from the Bundeswehr. 


Light kevlar west 
Surplus from the police. 


Chest-rig 
Ronin chest-rig from condor with 15 pouches for 40 round MP7 magazines from TT. They fit 15 round 


Luty magazines. Inexpensive, lightweight and fast to take of, but not of high quality. 


The Objectives 


1. Prove the viability of improvised weapons. 
2. Increase the moral of other suppressed Whites by spreading the combat footage. 
3. Kill as many anti-Whites as possible, jews preferred. 


Bonus: Dont die. 


The Plan 


First is the local synagogue. Damn, that’s not a soft target. For some reason (jej) the security measures 
are quite high. The building is surrounded by apartment blocks on 2 sides and borders a jewish 
graveyard on the third. The graveyard is surrounded by a 3m high wall and has (as far as I could see) 
only one entrance next to the one of the synagogue. Speaking of which, there’s a surveillance cam right 
above the gate, and I think this or the one behind that can only be opened by someone inside with an 
electric door panel. The windows are not really reachable either. And they could very well be bullet 
resistant, as the BRD spends huge amounts of tax money on jew safety. This means, if I won’t get 
lucky and they have a door standing open, I need to force my way in or lure the rats out. 

Both methods are not foolproof, so there’s quite the possibility that I fail to get in and instead spill my 
spaghetti all over the street, while the kikes are watching (and laughing) from the inside. I would rather 
prefer to not do that. 

I could wait until a kike enters, shoot him and get through before the door slams shut, or I could try to 
push the door in with the rest of my AN, enough for a 4kg ANFO bomb. I believe there’s a door from 
the synagogue to the graveyard, so I could try to open the yard entrance door by hitting it with my car. 
That would prevent me from getting away and doing a second action, so this option is not preferred. 
Alternatively I could try to set fire to the building with molotovs and/or grenades thrown at the 
entrance, which could theoretically lead to them running out. 

IF I get in, I need to be extremely careful clearing the rooms, because jews are the only group besides 
politicians in this sad excuse of a country who will not only get guns effortlessly, but also the permit to 
CC them. 

Oh, and on top of THAT I have not the slightest clue how the floor plan looks like. Intel is the most 
important aspect of an operation and my capabilities are rather limited. The street in front is overlooked 
by cameras and as a young, fit, white male with blond hair and blue eyes and without tattoos, piercings 
or other degenerate shit(beside being a weeb) I already look like a terrorist. For that reason I couldn’t 
linger to long in front, as getting under suspicion would endanger the whole operation. They have no 
problems kicking doors in for no good reason, all that’s needed is a jew complaining. 

In conclusion, I prepare for all of the above and decide on site. The best day of action should be 

Jom Kippur, because even “non-religious” jews are often visiting the synagogue on this date. 


Rereading the paragraph, that really sounds bad. So why, you may ask, did I choose this target. 

It’s the nearest location with a high population of jews, simple as that. Even then, I need to drive 45 
minutes, which is quite a lot of time to get detected and intercepted. I originally planned to storm a 
mosque or an antifa “culture” center, which are way less defended, but even killing 100 golems won’t 
make a difference, when on a single day more than that are shipped to Europe. The only way to win is 
to cut of the head of ZOG, which are the kikes. If I fail and die but kill a single jew, it was worth it. 
After all, if every White Man kills just one, we win. 


Tldr: 

Choose the best way for entry spontaneous. Go in and kill everything. Improvise, if when something 
goes wrong. Drive away. Kill some more. Repeat until all jews are dead or you prove the existence of 
Waifus in Valhalla, whatever comes first. Jej. 


Achievements 


No way back. 
Upload this PDF. 


Chosen to die. 
Kill a jew. 


Gender Equality 
Kill a jewess. 


2 Kikes 1 Shekel 
Kill 2 jews with a grenade. 


The fire rises. 
Burn down a synagogue. 


Cultural Appropriation 
Stab a muslim. 


If I only had one bullet... 
Kill a traitor. 


Life collectivized 
Kill a communist. 


This is my BOOM-STICK! 
Kill someone with a Slam-Bang. 


You only live once. 
Kill someone with the single-shot. 


The Way of the Autist 
Kill someone with the sword. 


That really grinds my gear. 


Kill someone with the secret weapon. 


Nailed it. 
Kill someone with a nail-bomb. 


Hello World! 
Have a successful live-stream. 


Anudda Shoa 
Kill 6 jews. 


Think of the children! 
Kill a kikelett. 


Why not both? 
Kill a muslim and a jew. 


Crusty Kebab 
Burn down a mosque. 


Midnight Genocide 


Kill 3 niggers between 11pm and 1 am. 


Blue-screened 
Kill a ZOG-bot. 


Crossed out 
Kill a christian. 


The Eternal Anglo 
Kill someone with a Luty. 


Boomers Pride 


Kill someone with the Smith-Carbine. 


Edgy 
Kill someone with the knife. 


Ban assault fittings! 
Kill someone with a pipe-bomb. 


I liked that hand... 
Accidentally frag yourself 
with the improvised explosives. 

Techno-Barbarism 


A spiritual guide for discontent White Men in the current year +4 


Dedomesticate yourself 


and 


KILLALL JEWS! 


Mudslimes, christkikes, commies, niggers and traitors too. 


thanks for reading 


Become a 


Techno- 
Barbarian 


TODAY 
and get a 


FREE* 


Cat-Girl 