It’s the jews.
It’s the jews.
It’s the jews.
They all have names and addresses.
The people responsible for our situation have names and addresses. The jews responsible have names and addresses.
Everyone knows what the problem is, but nobody is willing to do anything to stop it.
We all know who the main “people” responsible are, whose heads (and noses) need to be at the chopping block, who to blame for this whole mess. Who to blame for the unchecked rise in non-White immigration to Europe and the US. Who to blame for the rise of degeneracy, faggotry, transgenderism, deviancy of all forms. Who to blame for the mass brainwashing of the public through media, newspapers, and now social media. Who to blame for enslaving us financially. And more recently, who to blame for pushing a form of complete social control, a “good boy pass” for people who just take a totally safe jab, so that ZOG knows they are good obedient cattle.
Everyone with eyes knows who is responsible. Yet still nothing changes - for now. The mindset of our people - and by our people, I mean those who already know what is happening and what has to change, what goals must be met - is still too poisoned with the propaganda of our enemy.
    
 A critical situation
As a Race, we find ourselves in a critical situation.
What the jews and their traitorous allies want, is power and wealth.
For them, the destruction and subjugation of the White race is simply logical. We are the greatest threat to their power structure and always have been. What they need, is an obedient mass of humanoid cattle who will obey without question, who will work without question, and who will consume the latest products without question.
And for the kikes, there is an added layer of both revenge for the centuries of rightful expulsions and exterminations that White Europeans carried out against these vermin, and of religious supremacy, which dictates them as the “chosen people” destined to rule over the hapless, gutless goyim.
With this in mind, their actions make a lot of sense.
They atomize us so that we don’t fight back collectively, through the use of propaganda meant to turn us against eachother (radical feminism versus MGTOW).
They dilute our power by importing or empowering millions of shitskin hordes who then act as the ethnic equivalent of strikebreakers, by being deliberately inserted into White-majority areas with their importation enforced by laws that prohibit “discrimination”.
They weaken us with propaganda that pushes degenerate ideologies and lifestyles like transgenderism, “sexual liberation”, faggotry and others.
They control us with measures like the jew-created and dangerous “COVID-19 vaccines”, just to figure out how many people are willing to resist and how many people are not willing to, so they can tailor their moves accordingly.
And, last but not least, they demoralize and deradicalize us, pacifying people who would otherwise revolt with numerous pressure release valves - voting, democracy, complaining online, electoral politics, civil discourse - and their made-up sense of morality, that keeps us from becoming effective.
All of this is enforced by traitorous governments and vast security and intelligence agencies, whose sole purpose is to keep the wheels of this system greased and going, and to prevent groups or individuals that could throw a wrench into their plans from ever becoming effective or gaining power.
What would the kikes’ final plans be? What do they get from all of this?
A world populated by obedient consumers, who will work, consume and not rise up. Who will produce profit for the “chosen ones” at the top.
 
 White people will be subjugated, atomized, degenerated or eradicated. We will work, we will do advanced work that niggers and assorted shitskins can not do, but we will never do anything to resist their tyranny.
We will be too weak to fight back, divided and conquered by masses of bugmen and brown garbage; too demoralized by the world around us to do anything; too few in numbers compared to our enemies to make a difference.
While we will slave away at the human plantation with the shitskins, the kikes and their traitorous allies will enjoy their lavish lives at our expense, fulfilling their goals of ruling over the goyim.
These plans is currently being implemented all over the White European world, in the west by the United States and in the east by Russia, the two jewish centers of power.
This is ZOG (Zionist Occupation Goverrnment). This is JOG (Jew Occupation Government). This is the System.
The New World Order, if you prefer that term.
That is what they want, and that is what they WILL get, unless something changes. The longer this goes on, the longer we wait before trying to stop this, the weaker we will be when the time comes to do something - and if we wait for too long, we will be too outnumbered, too politically diluted, too atomized to do anything.
-
Think of it this way: the body of our people has been infiltrated by a particularly nasty, talmudic parasite. After decades of unchecked infection, the immune system failed at its job, and the body is in disarray. The parasite has spread to the entire body, our people’s immunity has been weakened, allowing opportunistic racial pathogens to grow with no limits. Some areas of the body have become gangrenous, rotten.
In such a severe case, what the body needs is radical, rapid treatment. For gangrenous areas, a debridement is necessary. Debridement is the removal of the gangrenous tissue, and also some healthy nearby tissue which may have been infected, and is thus possibly dangerous in the long run. The removal of some healthy tissue ensures that there is nothing waiting to strike at the body in the future.
And this is exactly the procedure that our Race, the White race, will have to undergo. The coming conflicts will exalt a terrible price from our people. It will be a painful experience,

 and many of our best men and women will lose their lives. But in a total battle like this - where we either win totally, or we lose totally - no amount of loss is worse than the complete destruction, subjugation, and erasure of our people. The White race may lose an arm or a leg in this war, but we will survive, if we simply fight for our existence. But if we just sit and hope for the best, then our people will die a slow death - we will not survive. Understand that this is a fight for our survival, and if we just stay silent and hope that one day a new savior pops up on his own and saves us from the brink of destruction, then we will surely lose it all.
Our goals
The goals that need to be achieved in order to secure the existence of our people and a future for White children are clear:
1. The total destruction of ZOG (Zionist Occupied Government) in all its forms, from the Western ZOG with its power center in the United States, and the Eastern ZOG with its power center in Russia.
2. The expulsion or physical removal of all alien races from our lands. The expulsion or physical removal of all White traitors, who aided ZOG in its destruction of our people.
3. The neutering of all rising threats from non-White countries of the world, to ensure European superiority for all of time.
4. The total eradication of all jews, to the last man, woman and child, and the erasure of all mentions of the jewish plague from the annals of history, except as a cautionary tale for the future.
There is no way to achieve even one of these required goals, without the use of violence at a large scale.
There is no way to achieve even one of these required goals, without it involving a collapse of, at minimum, the United States and Russia, and preferably also China.
How do you plan to deport or remove the tens of millions of racial aliens and other assorted garbage occupying our lands, without the use of violence. Do you think they will leave on their own? How about the well-connected kikes in the government. You think that if you somehow manage to magically get yourself elected as an open White revolutionary, the kikes at the top will just vacate their posts?
To address the elephant in the room: not only will violence be required to solve the predicament facing our people, but a huge amount of it will be required. Before anything else, get this fact into your head.
How else do you expect to go against the most evil, entrenched occupation regime in history? Run by a cabal of scheming jew rats and their traitor allies?
Covered with an aura of legitimacy based on sham elections and “democracy”?
 
 Protected by a vast array of police officers, military officials, a security and intelligence apparatus of unparalleled intricacy and reach?
Supported by millions of people that have been brainwashed by one of the most insidious and persistent propaganda efforts in history?
Just think about it: what is your plan, really?
To vote for a politician, who will inevitably betray you once someone offers to pay him
enough money or threatens him or his family?
To start a political party, which will fall into the cesspit of political squabbles and be undermined by paid and unpaid agents; literal antifa jannies who will do it for free?
To petition the government, which will then promptly throw your pleas into the trash?
To plaster the walls and power poles of your neighborhood with stickers, which will be ignored by everyone?
To complain on the Internet, endlessly screaming into the void?
You know exactly what all of this means. You may not like the inevitable conclusion of these facts, but there is no way to ignore them without willingly lying to yourself. To put it simply: there is no way out of this, that does not involve violence. In the end, the solution to all our problems and the way to achieve all out goals is violence, targeted at the right people and groups, in the right amounts, for the right amount of time, at the right time.
They’ve learned a lot from the mistakes of the Interbellum Period. They are not naive, they are not retarded. They will not play fair and square with us.
Our solutions
Now, what should we do with this information in mind?
Certainly not sit around and wait for a savior to pop up and fix everything!
DECENTRALIZE: Say goodbye to named, public-facing groups that get infiltrated by ZOG agents and dismantled from within. Each man forms his own group, from within his close real life friends. No internet bullshit - you never know who is behind that screen! Your group should consist of people you know and trust, not random retards recruited using posters and stickers! Recruits will not come to you - instead you approach them.
“That’s the one big advantage of the ‘you don’t join the NVA, the NVA joins you’ rule. In order for them to get an infiltrator in deep it would almost certainly have to be one of our own people who went bad after he got in, acting out of a personal grudge or for money.” ~H. A. Covington, The Brigade, p. 226
 
 STRIKE AT THE ZOG: Strike at ZOG; strike at its institutions; strike at its human shields; strike at the hordes of racial enemies invading our lands; strike at key leaders that keep the System going; strike at the rank-and-file activists; strike at the System’s property.
Destroy the government! Target traitorous politicians; target their families; target their children; target their property. Target the government buildings that host the politicians and bureaucrats. Target courthouses; target enemy judges; target activist lawyers, barristers and attorneys. Target voting booths; target political candidates.
Destroy the top echelon of ZOG! Target international bankers; target their property; target their families; target their children. Target the World Economic Forum. Target the UN. Target the Rothschilds; target the Rockefellers; target them all.
Destroy their bread and circus! Target Hollywood; target directors; target screenwriters; target cameramen; target especially heinous anti-White or degenerate actors and actresses; target their families’ target their children; destroy their property. Target anti-White or degenerate musicians; target anti-White or degenerate artists; target anti-White or degenerate writers. Target infrastructure; destroy necessary utilities in non-White or jewish areas - electricity, water supply, sanitation, fiber-optic cables, cell towers.
Destroy ZOG auxillaries! Target the media; target journalists; target television reporters; target their offices; target media buildings; target studios. Target social media companies; target their executives; target their databases; target their property; target their families; target their children.
Destroy the invaders! Target invasive non-Whites; target their families; target their children; target their property. Target invader-owned businesses, restaurants and corner stores; kill the invaders inside and burn down the property to leave nothing for their families. Target ethnic enclaves; burn down apartment buildings; target public transportation in ethnic areas. Target their representatives; target their activists; target the pillars of their communities to undermine and destroy them.
Destroy the poisoners! Target pornographers; target porn studios; target porno stores. Target COVID vaccine manufacturers; target vax distribution centers; target the inventors of the COVID vaccine technology; target warehouses holding the poison. For Americans, target opiate sellers; target the Sackler family and their children.
Destroy their income! Threaten employers who choose to employ cheap non-White labor over White labor; if they refuse to hire White, burn down their properties; burn down the buildings where they employ non-Whites; deny them income if they choose to make it from shitskin labor. If they decide to outsource out of the danger zone, target the employers directly; target their families; target their children; target their property. Target tax offices; target tax officers; destroy tax offices; burn them down and destroy their records; destroy their databases. Target banks; target bankers; target their property; destroy their databases and records.

 Destroy the degenerates! Target faggots; target their activists; target their public figures; target their fag bars; target their pride parades; target their families. Target trannies; target gender conversion clinics; target groomer gender therapists; target drag queens. Target open out & proud sexual deviants who corrupt our society.
Destroy the defenders of the System! Target city pigs; target them at work and after work; target their families; target their children. Destroy the police stations; destroy their materiel; destroy their databases. If possible, strike deals with rural cops - you leave them alone, and they leave you alone. If not possible, the same as for city cops applies. In the US and Russia, target federal police; target FBI agents; target OMON and GRU agents; target the CIA; target the Rosgvardia. Target ZOGbots; target military bases; target recruitment centers; raid armories and depots if you have the manpower.
Destroy the ideological enemies! Target progressive activists; target Marxists and communists; target Antifa; target race mixers; target shabbos goyim; target White employees of anti-White organizations.
Destroy the internal enemies! Target deradicalizers; target false flaggots; target naysayers; target political solution advocates; target catboys and spics (but I repeat myself on this point).
Destroy the jews. For the jews, there can be no compromise, no debate. For the jews, only death can follow.
ACCELERATE:
The only way to win, is to tear down this rotten System. Tear down the ZOG. Then, offer an alternative for the people, and those with brains will jump the ZOG ship before it sinks into the cold depths.
First, you must understand the lemming theory. No one explains it better than the man who created it, William Luther Pierce. I will let this excellent infographic do the job for me...
(Scroll to the next page, read from left to right, top to bottom)

   
 What does all of this mean?
Whatever you do, should be dedicated to destroying ZOG. Not to attract the approval of average people - it doesn’t matter. What you must do, is weaken ZOG’s hold on the populace, by any means necessary. It is the most important task. You must weaken ZOG’s stranglehold on power.
Accelerate the decline of ZOG, so that we may rise from its ruins.
We must accelerate, for our time is limited. The longer we wait, the more entrenched ZOG gets, the weaker we get, and the harder it will be to uproot them. We must speed up the death and decay of ZOG - for the sooner it falls apart, the easier it will be for us to replace it.
The average Joe must no longer feel safe. He must feel the issues plaguing ZOG. He must feel unrepresented in the political process, excluded from it completely. He must feel the pressure of marauding niggers and shitskins, threatening to kill him while the cops kneel a street away. He must feel the supply chain issues, inflation, hunger.
First accelerate the decline of ZOG, then supplant it! Fill the power vacuum.
Once the people have no alternative, once ZOG can no longer provide for them, give them comfort, give them their basic needs, they will look for alternative sources.
Be the ruler who will give his People a new leader.
WEAKEN ZOG. DESTROY ZOG. REPLACE ZOG.

 About me
NTMA0315 (@ntma0315)
he/him | “social nationalist” | voting enjoyer | DNI: non-White, LGBTQA+, j*wish, stalintwt, groyptwt | OPINIONS MY OWN
-
My name is not important; I’m sure sooner or later you will learn it.
I was born in July of 2003.
I am of Slovak origin, with Croatian and Vojvodina Slovak in there as well.
My life has been pretty average; it has had its ups and downs, lows and highs, moments of happiness and joy but also sadness and depression. Friendships came and went. I switched schools once because of what I perceived as “bullying”, althought that was just me being a pussy and unable to handle jokes. Self-diagnosing various mental issues over the Internet certainly didn’t help. Overall, I would say that I have no big issues with how I lived my life.
I’ve spent quite some time on the Internet, starting with debating atheism vs religion and Roblox vs Minecraft in like 2014 or 2015. Well, “debating” as much as a literal 11 year old could, which mostly consisted of throwing insults at others. Everyone had some cringeworthy shit they did as a kid, and I’m not different.
In fact, atheism/agnosticism or general irreligion was actually my first political stance that I took. As a child, my family decided to leave religion up to my decision, and with no forced church attendance or religious education, turns out I never became religious. Figures.
In 2016, I “supported” Donald Trump, but again, the support was mostly because the memes were funny and I liked them. In retrospect, I could consider myself a member of the “alt- right”, and my general dislike of religion, combined with my dislike of hypocrisies, made me averse to Islam - probably my first “politically incorrect” thought. Either way, this phase also ended quickly in 2017. My support was always token at best, and I was too young to understand a lot of it.
All throughout this time until 2019, I dabbled in all sorts of ideologies and movements and regrettably even one or two fandoms, mostly at a surface level. I had an interest in the men’s rights movement around 2016, again due to what I saw as perceived hypocrisies. My atheism/agnosticism never left me through these years. Some of the more unfortunate things I supported were gun control and general liberal politics in 2017 (yet I maintained my dislike of Islam, funny how that works...), and even a brief few week stint as a ponyfag, which thankfully went away quickly. I was a kid cruising the Internet, picking up shit along the way and throwing it away just as quickly.
 It all changed in May of 2019.

 -
My main two inspirations to carry out an operation, and the main reason I even opened my eyes to the kikes and their plans and decided to resist them, were Brenton Tarrant and John Earnest.
In early 2019, I had an interest in true crime content. So when I heard that someone massacred people in New Zealand, I was right on it. And that’s where I saw the video for the first time. I was not fully redpilled at the time, but I still maintained my dislike of Islam from the 2016 days, so I didn’t feel much sympathy for the sandniggers. Yet the video was something else. It was truly unique - maybe it was the fact that it was livestreamed, or the video-game-like view of the whole event, or just the general slaughter of 51 shitskins.
The video felt “different” to most other content that I had seen before.
Still, at the time, my views didn’t really change much. But I was now aware of this 8chan website, and wondered what made it different. Still, I did not begin using it until a month of so later.
After Saint Earnest.
When he posted his manifesto on the same website as Saint Tarrant - 8chan - I decided to check out what made the website so special, and from there on I was never the same. In just a few weeks, I learned so much there, it completely changed my view of the world. Yet most importantly of all, from day one, I was never under the illusion that a political solution to the problems I learned about on the website, was possible. That was important - I had skipped the long phase of indecision, belief in voting for (((Trump))) or red herring politicians, and other such nonsense.
Despite 8chan’s removal not long after I joined in the aftermath of Saint Crusius’ strike, the site continues to live on as a source of inspiration for thousands, who took the redpill and subsequently the action-pill in the Memetic Warfare and book threads, the shitposts and effortposts, the debates and infographic dumps.
8chan may be gone, but its influence continues to propagate forward. And they will continue to propagate for a long time.
Since 2019, I have slowly been preparing: gathering targets, researching and monitoring them, reading about tactics and strategies. My targets switched as both the global situation and my personal knowledge evolved. Yet my desire to strike against the ZOG has always remained.

 What was missing, was my courage. I could’ve struck at any time: I had numerous opportunities. Yet I was, to say it frankly, a pussy. Even as I understood more and more how dire the situation was becoming, I always had some excuses to justify my own inaction.
The final nail in the coffin was Payton Gendron. His livestream gave me new inspiration, a new impulse to do what had to be done after years of procrastination. And in Gendron, I saw myself - a young man with his whole life ahead, who decided to fight for something bigger than himself, who fought for what he believed in. He had the same feeling that many others before him, and he took it.
In May of this year, I began writing this document and seriously preparing myself for carrying out a strike against ZOG. Saint Gendron gave me the final nudge, allowing me to overcome my own indecision and begin seriously working towards carrying out an operation.
As for my ideology, it’s hard to say. Shitposting and trolling are my favorites, but perhaps removing traitors will surpass that. The most accurate description of my ideology would probably be racial nationalism, exclusively focused on the White/European race.
-
Now you may wonder, why I would do this? Why would I “waste” my life to do this, when I have so much ahead of me? My entire life, the chance to work a meaningful job, the prospect of a future family, the chance of having children - thrown away?
I can no longer stand by and watch, while our people are being destroyed.
Watch the jews work us over slowly, inflicting cut upon cut, slowly bleeding us out with their policies. The kikes and their traitorous allies seek to destroy us, and I can’t sit by in my comfortable room anymore, with the knowledge of what they’re planning.
I must take a stand, even if just once in my life.
Even if I must stand alone, even if just for one day, even if I may fail - I must do
something. Because my people are worth fighting for.
“We must secure the existence of our people and a future for white children.”
In pursuit of this goal, anything is acceptable. Absolutely anything. Anything is worth it, if it helps bring us closer to fulfilling the 14 Words, spoken by David Eden Lane, but felt by all of us. Anything and everything that brings us closer to achieving his vision, this noble goal. Simple, succinct, yet so powerful.
This is about more than just me. This is about more than myself, a single individual. This is about my people - White people, from the Slovaks to the Germans to the Ukrainians to the Poles to the Brits, and everywhere inbetween. In comparison, my individual worth is nothing. They really do seek to destroy us.
   
 Even if I must die in the process, I must fight and damage ZOG to the best of my ability. I will do it with a smile on my face, even if this is the end of my one shot at life. Consciousness stops upon death. Yes I will take it, because my conscience no longer allows me to sit back and watch the decline around me.
Yes, even here in Slovakia. We are, at best, 40 to 50 years behind the most affected Western countries, before the degenerate and brainwashed youth of today grow up into the future leaders. Social media from the West and East - Twitter, Instagram, Tiktok - has done its dirty work, and the decline is now accelerating. First it’s just the cities, and before you know it, the entire country has been destroyed. That is what is coming.
There is no sheltered meadow, and the cancer of ZOG will not stop until it has destroyed us completely. I can see it wherever I go, slowly but surely increasing in number. The future of my people, irreversibly ruined. I can see the pride flags flying in some windows; I can see the youth of my nation with their minds corrupted on social media feeds; I can see their Instagram stories, sharing their support for self-destructive policies.
I can see it in person.
At just 14, her main goal in life is to destroy it. Testosterone injections, masectomy at 15, that is what she wants. All it took was some TikTok, and a friends group that supports it all. That allows her to self-destruct like that.
I knew long before that it was happening even in Slovakia, but seeing it in person in July of this year really brough together everything.
It’s happening here, in my circle of friends. How worse will it get?
How worse will I allow it to get?
Without fighting?
With the knowledge that it is happening, but too cowardly to do anything.
How worse?
How much more could I handle?
Could I live with myself, as my country and my people are slowly destroyed from within, by enemies who have names and addresses? With the means to fight back?
 I could not, and I made my decision accordingly.
 
 Addressing detractors
“Violence is bad optics!”
If the only thing that concerns you in what you do is what the average Joe thinks of it, you are playing a lost game. Public opinion is completely controlled by jews and their servants, whether willing or not. Thus, the definition of “optics” is determined by the enemy, and this makes it completely irrelevant to even try and maintain “good optics”. Everything that goes out to the public is shown through a lens that is already tinted in a certain way. You will never convince “the masses” to rise up for anything other than the next booster shot from ZOG so that they can go back to work and to the clubs again. You think that if you just maintain good optics, that ZOG will give you your fair due? Look at Patriot Front and the numerous other peaceful organizations. They get called evil Nazi fascist terrorists just as much as the Saints do!
Don’t appeal to the masses from the start - appeal to your own side. The people receptable to the redpill. They are the ones that matter, they are the ones that fight, they are the ones that you convince to fight.
The masses, the ordinary people, they will remain on the side that is currently the dominant power, until it becomes impossible or dangerous to do so, until the current dominant power can no longer provide their basic needs. Then they will decide if they are our enemy, or if they switch their loyalties to us. The lemming theory holds true to this day.
Whenever you do something, do what is the most effective, not what is the most optical. Sure, plastering stickers on the walls is pretty optical and harmless, but is it more effective than giving the doctors that authorized the “life saving” COVID-19 vaccine for children a little “dose of their own medicine”? You could even say that if they give out the shot, they should be willing to take a shot as eagerly. Maybe even a few boosters, just in case. Which of these is a winning strategy, a little public vandalism that everyone will ignore, or physical removal of the enemy and the intimidation of other enemies into submission?
  
 “We need to go through the political system!”
"Do not suffer under the delusion of an effortless, riskless democratic victory.” ~Saint Tarrant, The Great Replacement, p. 20
The political process is controlled by ZOG, and playing by their rules will only enslave you further. This is the most obvious in the US with its two parties, both of which are obviously controlled from the top by jews, but it’s the same in Europe. The only difference is that there are multiple parties, usually some openly anti-White progressive ones, and then some gatekeeper conservative cuck parties whose sole purpose is to act as a pressure release valve and to gently push possible radicals back into the impotent cycle of voting. As for genuine parties, you usually know they’re genuine because they don’t last long.
Voting only serves as a pressure release valve, it has no other use for the System, and results are regularly rigged to serve specific goals that the System has.
In 2020, they wanted a more progressive Democrat to win the US presidency, so they got it.
But in 2021, when it was becoming apparent that a large number of Trumpers were becoming disillusioned with the System and its blatant fraud, they allowed a Republican - a particularly spineless, Israel-first Republican - to win in Virginia; thus, they managed to reel many Trumpers back in and convinced them that their vote truly matters.
To illustrate this even further, consider the recent american Supreme Court decision which effectively repealed Roe v. Wade. Many american republicans considered it a victory. Yet if you look at its core, what do you see?
It is a token victory at best. It does not address the core issues facing American White people - most of the White people aborting their children are libshits, who would’ve brainwashed their children into anti-White activists anyways. The number of non-White invaders in America continues to grow and grow, unchecked. The jewish power in America remains the same.
But you know what it does address? The low nigger birthrates, caused primarily because niggers disproporionately abort their children in America.
They have appeased you, by increasing your enemy’s birthrates.
“It’s the birthrates. It’s the birthrates. It’s the birthrates.”
This is what you now celebrate as a victory - a token victory; an illusion that appeals to your misplaced sense of morality.
 
 This does not mean that abortion is a good thing - by no means it is. It is an evil practice only justifiable in certain situations, and certainly not on demand. But it is not the core issue.
This is how they lure you back into the political system. This is how they reel you in - with feel-good faux-victories. And this is what brings people back to the ineffective voting booth year after year.
Wherever you go, spread the news that voting does not matter and that there is no political solution.

 “Violence makes us lose the moral high ground!” “We need to be perceived as the victims!”
“The victory may be only radical action - campaigning and murder [...] Rallies , picketing and other dressing did not achieve. Action should always be sharp. The less time costs for the action , the longer it takes effect.”
~Vita Zaverukha
Trying to maintain some imaginary “moral high ground” in face of the kikes’ coordinated attempts to wipe us out is just shooting ourselves in the foot. This also ties into the optics “debate”. Trying to maintain a supposed moral high ground does not help us in any way - rather, it prevents us from utilizing effective strategies that some people may consider immoral.
Usually, the sort of thinking that I describe comes from two points of view. The first one is the optics cuck point of view; the people who still believe that by just playing nice with the jew System, we can win something.
The other one comes from ingrained slave thinking, usually originating from various jewish ideologies and ways of thinking forced onto us centuries ago. The thinking is that as long as we just stay nice, we will win at an unspecified time later, usually after death or some other unachievable goal.
Ultimately, this narrative comes from a position of victimhood. The people who use this argument do not actually care about victory, but they care about being perceived as the underdog, as the victims.
They want Whites to stay in a position of weakness, because this allows them to pity party; to bemoan just how oppressed they are under the boot of a vastly more powerful foe.
But they don’t want to fight back and get themselves from under the boot; they like it there, because it allows them to wallow in self-pity.
Both of these excuses should be disregarded. The “moral high ground” does not matter; what matters is effectivity. If an action is effective, it should be undertaken, because this is a fight where the stakes are high. In fact, everything is at risk. Anything is acceptable in a fight for our very existence, against the most powerful tyranny to have ever existed.
  
 “Why didn’t you pick some other target?”
“Tops might unironically be the best option because
1: It shows that attacks on their people can happen in places where they think it won’t
2: It shows that any black can be the victim
3: They are “innocent” in a way that they haven’t directly caused this due to crimes in the past or what not, which will most like increase coverage“
~Saint Gendron, 13/05/22
The primary complaint by people on the “dissident right”, is that almost every hero has targeted random people. They argue that people could achieve a lot more if they instead targeted high-profile individuals - politicians, celebrities, CEOs.
This is both true and false. It is true that high-value targets have inherently more value than a corner store in middle of Niggerville. The deaths of politicians and bureaucrats are more likely to send ZOG into overdrive, thus making it overplay its hand and force fence sitters to pick a side. Attacks on these people can disrupt their plans by killing important figures or people who are even irreplaceable due to their unique status. The more of these people die, the better, and people should be informed about where the enemies live, where their families live.
Yet people underestimate what seemingly “random” violence can achieve.
Just by attacking a nigger ghetto grocery store, Payton Gendron managed to damage the cohesiveness and safety of an entire community. Enough attacks like this, or individual attacks on a large enough scale against a small enough group, can easily uproot an entire community. Despite it being niggerville central, Buffalo isn’t particularly known for its gang culture. A community like that is harmed when its figureheads and elders die. Think that old negress who cooked food at the local part. She was well known, and now she is dead. It spreads fear and doubt and uncertainty about the future in a community when a random outsider comes up and starts killing locals. It doesn’t help when you have no idea if or when it will happen again, because it isn’t centralized. This contributes to the uprooting of a formerly safe community.
It is the same strategy niggers do, just not intentionally, but by the virtue of their random chimpouts and violent behavior. Niggers move to White communities, and commit random violence. Robberies, murders, assaults, rapes. After a long enough time, this results in White flight. A community has been uprooted, just with random and uncoordinated violence.
And there is demonstrable evidence of this happening in our context: Saint Tarrant of Christchurch, who single-handedly uprooted the entire local muslim community, as a large portions of muslim families in the city lost their breadwinners (most of those killed were men, many with large families). Many of the invaders had businesses fail afterwards, and had to move away from the country.
 
 In the end, this is a point used by cowards who just want to justify their own inaction. These people will never be satisfied.
A man who killed dozens of racial enemies is actually a psyop, because he didn’t kill jews. A man who killed jews is actually a psyop, because he didn’t kill politicians.
A man who killed a politician is actually a psyop, because he didn’t kill Jacob Rothschild himself.
And I can bet you that if someone killed Jacob Rothschild at one of his addresses in Waddesdon, Aylesbury, UK (coordinates: 51.817048, -0.885059), these people would find something to complain about.
Probably just “this rocks the boat too much, please stop we need to stay peaceful!” There is no arguing with these people. And for those who know what has to be done, just know that the only bad target is no target.

 “Trust the plan, once Q/God/Jesus returns, we will win!”
This is just yet another method used by cowards to justify their own inaction in the face of the relentless assault on our people by the kikes. They make up a fictional reality in their minds, where secretly some based person, entity or people are working around the clock to stop the evil cabal/deep state/satanists, and very soon they will reveal the truth. By “very soon” I mean two weeks away, because these people are just another variant of the doomsday apocalypse theorists. The magical date when Trump or Jesus will return and smite the deep state cabal will never come, because there is no such things happening - there is no secret patriots working to dismantle the cabal. Trump is just another pawn in the System meant to draw the goyim back into the electoral politics scam, and fairytales will not save us.
This even has a precedent - search up “Operation Trust”. I will quote the Wikipedia article:
“Operation Trust was a counterintelligence operation of the State Political Directorate (GPU) of the Soviet Union. The operation, which was set up by GPU's predecessor Cheka ran from 1921 to 1926, set up a fake anti-Bolshevik resistance organization, "Monarchist Union of Central Russia", MUCR, in order to help the OGPU identify real monarchists and anti-Bolsheviks ... MUCR kept the monarchist general Alexander Kutepov from active actions, as he was convinced to wait for the development of internal anti-Bolshevik forces. Kutepov had previously believed in militant action as a solution to the Soviet occupation, and had formed the "combat organization", a militant splinter from the Russian All-Military Union led by General Baron Pyotr Nikolayevich Wrangel.”
I wouldn’t be surprised if the entire Q thing was started as a legitimate psyop, similar to Operation Trust. And just by coincidence, both the current ZOG and the former Eastern ZOG bolshevik regimes were heavily jewish.
As it turns out, believing in jewish fairytales of any kind will not lead you to victory, but to a dead end. Hoping that Q and the Patriots will overthrow the deep state in 2 weeks, or that Jesus will smite the demonic hebes in 2 weeks, will get us nowhere. What WILL get us somewhere, is lead and ammonium nitrate. Action and results over prayer and no results. It really is that simple.
 
 “Trust the plan, Russia/China will save us!”
This weak argument is, once again, used by those who do not want to take their future into their own hands. As such, their copout excuse is to hope that a magical savior, in the form of a different influential country, will swoop in and save us.
This is not happening.
There is no country in the world that would openly and directly align with us. And certainly no superpower.
Not the United States, not China, and not Russia.
I don’t think anybody needs any reminding that the United States is the Great Satan, and it must be destroyed.
With China, if you seriously believe that the chinks care about White people for any reason other than to exploit us, you are very gullible. The only thing these people care about is gaining influence by any means necessary. They can’t be called a direct part of ZOG, but expecting White European freedom under the boot of the chinese bugman is naive at best and malicious at worst. The chinks are a wild card, which can may be exploitable (see below).
The most controversial of these three will probably be Russia. If you feel doubtful about Russia being just another enemy country controlled by the same enemies as the West, all you have to look at are Putin’s statements on ethnic nationalism, what ethnicity and religion his closest government friends are, and what sentiments he publicly expresses.
As a country, Russia is a federation (see: Empire). It has a core area originally populated by Whites, which is surrounded by large areas populated by various non-White asiatics, semitics and other mongrels. These are primarily exploited for resources and profit. This would be fine, of course, if not for the fact that the native Russian people are rapidly being replaced by these non-White mongrels. Moscow itself is only 40% to 50% White, with the rest composed of various central asians, armenians and other non-White ethnicities from all corners of the Russian empire. This situation is not helped by the fact that to hold this empire together, the government is explicitly civic nationalist, with Putin openly proclaiming his opposition to ethnic nationalism of all kinds. Just read the following article, which directly outlines Putin as a civic nationalist in his own words: https://interfax.com/ newsroom/top-stories/22410/. And he stands by those words: Russia has strong hate speech laws, Holocaust denial laws, and people routinely get arrested and sometimes even “suicided” for acts in opposition to the regime.
Does this sound familiar? A multiethnic empire, with the native White people being replaced by non-Whites of all kinds and exploited for economic profit, with strict hate speech laws? It sure does sound similar to the issues faced by the West. Wonder why? You just need to take one look at the people Putin surrounds himself with.
   
 • Roman Abramovich (close to Putin) - jew
• Alexander Abramov (steel oligarch) - jew
• Oleg Deripaska (aluminium oligarch) - jew
• Mikhail Prokorov (nickel, palladium & gold oligarch) - jew
• Alisher Usmanov (industrial oligarch) - uzbek
• German Khan (consumer goods & oil oligarch) - jew
• Viktor Vekselberg (conglomerate owner, oligarch, close to Putin) - jew
• Leonid Mikhelson (gas oligarch) - jew
• Vagit Alekperov (oil oligarch) - azerbaijani
• Mikhail Fridman (conglomerate owner, oligarch, banker, investor) - jew
• Petr Aven (banker, close to Putin) - jew
• Vitaly Malkin (banker) - jew
• Arkady & Boris Rotenberg (gas pipeline construction company owners, close to Putin) -
jews
• Yevgeny Prigozhin (close to Putin, controls Wagner group) - jew
• Kirill Shamalov (ex-husband of Putin’s daughter) - jew
• Anatoly Rakhlin (Putin’s old judo coach, described by Putin as his “second father”) - jew
• Vladimir Solovyov (main pro-Putin propagandist on Russian TV) - jew
• Alexander Gintsburg (director of Gamaleya Institute, creators of the Sputnik V clotshot) -
jew
• Boris Spiegel (close to Putin, founder of “World Without Nazism” and “World Congress of Russian Jewry”) - go ahead, have a guess ✡
The current Russian state is just Eastern ZOG - a counterpart to the Western ZOG. They may disagree on the methods and execution on how to subjugate the goyim, but fundamentally if they succeed, the result will be the same thing, just that in the east there will be less faggot parades in the public and more in the army. In the end, we will be subjugated, diluted and replaced by non-Whites of all kinds nonetheless. Right now, Eastern and Western ZOG are clashing over their influence in Eastern Europe, one of the last remaining areas in the world that are majority White.
In the end, ZOG in all its forms will have to go, from America all the way to Russia, and everything in between, or our people will never be free.
And if you’re still in doubt, look at what the Russian kike government does to Russian nationalists.
Not Imperial multiculturalist ones, but Russian ethnonationalists. Those who oppose the fact that Moscow is only 40 to 50% White. Look at what they did to Tesak. Do not forget what they’ve done. —

 Now, there is one exception to this. In case of a organized civil conflict breaking out in the West, you just know that the changs and Russia will be swooping in to fund all sorts of insurgent groups, including White separatist ones. Accept those funds, accept the MANPADS and guns they send. But never forget, that they aren’t supporting you because they agree with you. They are supporting you because you are dangerous to Western ZOG, and they want you to stay dangerous. Take that as a compliment, but never forget that they aren’t your friends; at best, begrudging allies.

 “White is a made up American category, we aren’t White, we are Germanic/Slavic/Nordic/Med/etc”
“When the redskin savages assaulted the wagon trains in the American West, the White people in those trains did not ask each other whether they were of German, Swedish, French, or other nationality. Rather, they circled their wagons as White people and fought them off. When the Mongols stormed into Europe, our ancestors did not care who spoke German, French, Hungarian, Russian, or whatever. Rather, they banded together as one race and fought together as White people against them. When the mongrel Turko-Mongolian Huns made it all the way to France eight hundred years earlier with their invasion of Europe, Franks and Romans put aside their own conflicts with one another and fought as a race against them to drive them out. Racial brotherhood, not nationalism, is what saved Europe. Racial brotherhood, not nationalism, is what won the American continent for the White Race.”
~Matt Hale
Whether this statement is true or not, I won’t address. Maybe it is true, maybe not. I could definitely see it being true, considering that Americans are a mixture of various ethnicities, but again I don’t know about the full history of the term “White” applied in the racial context.
Even if that is true, White people aka those of European descent must still fight together. The reason is simple: our enemies see us as a collective, and thus we must fight as a collective.
When a kike sees an Englishman, he doesn’t think of English people. He thinks of the Edict of Expulsion.
When a kike sees a Ukrainian, Russian or Belarusian, he doesn’t think of Ukrainians, Russians or Belarusians. He thinks of the Ukrainian boys chasing that bloodied yenta across the streets of Lviv. He thinks of the numerous pogroms in the Pale of Settlement, where their ancestors were kicked out or wiped out by Ukrainian, Russian and Belarusian commoners, peasants and serfs, Cossacks and soldiers.
When a kike sees a German, he doesn’t think of Germans. He thinks of the boot of an SS trooper kicking the oven door shut. He thinks of the Einsatzgruppen man, forcing him towards a freshly-dug ditch in a nearby field at gunpoint.
When a kike sees a Spaniard, he doesn’t think of Spaniards. He thinks of the Alhambra Decree.
When a kike sees an Italian, he doesn’t think of Italians. He thinks of the expulsions from the Papal States, from Naples, from Genoa, the persecutions.
Kikes don’t care if you’re Swedish or Italian; English or Irish; German or Polish; Spanish or American; Slovak or Hungarian. They see us collectively as enemies, those who rightfully
  
 and dutifully persecuted them across centuries due to their endless scheming and plotting and subverting. They see us as White. And they intend to deal with us collectively.
Regardless of if the concept of “Whiteness” originates from Americans or not, we must now face our greatest enemy as a unit. Because otherwise, we will not succeed.

 General thoughts and musings Gun rights don’t exist unless you fight for them
Gun rights are, in essence, a Schrödinger's cat situation.
Gun rights exists to give the people a way to fight back against a tyrannical government. A government which decides to take away those rights, should thus be considered tyrannical, as it takes away the one thing that will surely stop anything that people may not like. It isn't voting, it isn't petitions, it isn't complaining online. It's the guns and how they are used.
However, the dilemma lies here: until the government makes a move to take those rights away, it is impossible to know if the gun rights were ever actual rights, or if they were just some words on a paper. If the people, in possession of their guns, refuse to fight back against an attempt by the government to take those guns, then retrospectively we can conclude that those rights never existed; they were just some words on a piece of paper that the government accepted, and when it had enough of them, they erased those words and the people complied.
The existence of gun rights hinges on whether the people will ever use them when the time becomes right.
In the Schrödinger's cat example: the cat is the very existence of "gun rights" as rights. The box is a government gun ban. Until that Pandora's box is opened, there is no way to know if the rights are actual rights, or just something that the government begrudgingly accepted until it had enough. And in the US, you may be getting close to the point where kikes try to open that box.
It does not matter how or why it comes into power - if the gun ban comes into power, it all hinges on you. The right to own guns exists for a reason, and if you refuse to use it when the time is right, then you never had the right to begin with - you were a slave without ever knowing it. If you do use them, then you show that the rights were actual rights, and the people were willing to use them as intended.
  
 The triune resistance
White resistance to ZOG can be visualized as three “prongs”, emerging from a single “stem”. The stem is the path that just about everyone will have to take, one way or another. Then, at the junction, everyone has to choose between one of the three paths provided. All three paths have their own utility, and their own dangers.
The initial stem can also be called the “awakening” or the “redpill” period. Every man, woman and child in the White resistance has that moment, where they, as some people like to call it, “take the redpill”. From that point on, they progress onwards with a changed mindset, with knowledge of many things that the kikes try to hide or obfuscate. They research more into forbidden topics - the history of our Race, the crimes of the jews and their allies, facts, genetics, our current situation. They learn and grow. Along this stem, most people are generally aligned with the “movement” - public-facing open anti-ZOG groups. The people who plaster stickers, put up posters, launch flash mob protests, fight with Antifa goons in the streets. The men who get arrested and jailed by ZOG at the highest rate. While progressing up the stem, most people still believe in a political or diplomatic solution to our problems, and thus believe that the solution is to simply make as many people as possible enter the stem and climb up it.
Many people will forever remain in the stem, never to progress further - the eternal complainer, the talker. Some will fall out of it, returning to being good upstanding citizens of ZOG.
Yet for the ones who remain, over time they awaken to further realities of our struggle - the nature of lemmings and the lemming theory, the strengths and weaknesses of ZOG, the ineffectivity of peaceful debates, the ineffectivity of the political process. Eventually, they hit the point where they can’t go any further without taking action.
And from this point, there are three paths to take.
1. Joining the movement. The people who, either consciously or just for a lack of a better option, join one of the many public-facing, open-registration groups operating at any given moment. They resist ZOG in an overt, non-violent way. It makes sense that most people who advance up the stem eventually end here - the public-facing groups are the most obvious representation fo White resistance against ZOG.
2. Passive resistance. The people who decide to build up resistance to ZOG, but in a different way from the movementarians. They resist ZOG in a covert, non-violent way. They construct the parallel economy and society to ZOG, silently and cloaked. They gain power in local affairs, at the scale of villages, towns and hamlets, influencing policies along with their like-minded allies. They start companies, produce products, yet just so happen to only hire White, and if possible, only sell White. They educate the local community on the forbidden facts, from a position of trust and from the bottom up. They slowly but surely usurp power from ZOG, with at the micro and later at the macro scale, providing the resistance with a base of operations, a base of supports, and eventually, once the ZOG has fragmented, create the base for a new White state.
   
 3. Active resistance. The men who pull triggers, mix up explosive compounds, click detonators, sharpen their blades, throw incendiaries, et cetera. They resist ZOG in a covert, violent way. Their identities are concealed, and if they’re revealed they go on the run. Small local cells, larger organizations spread out over larger areas, or lone wolves.
The critical point is this: the movement is a human shield. As the open, public face of the resistance against ZOG, these are the people who will face the brunt of the dying thrashes of the kike System.
They are the men who will be rounded up, arrested en-masse, harassed and doxed by Antifa goons, have their names dragged through the mud.
Yet they are crucially important, because they make the System focus on a red herring, giving the covert passive and active resistance more breathing room.
They allow the shooters and bombers to operate, to hide among other people instead of standing out in the open.
They are like a shield, absorbing the blows of the enraged, wounded beast, while the other two prongs flank the beast and deliver crushing blows to its sides.
No matter how much you may scorn them, thinking that going out and facing the System is stupid, their utility must not be underestimated.
Together with the stem, these three prongs form the basis of White resistance. Three prongs, and a stem.
The future of our Race. A Life for our Race.
   
 Seize any opportunity
If you see an opportunity to do something, to change something for White people - seize it!
I will provide two unrelated example of opportunism paying off.
The COVID pandemic is the first example.
Some chink in Wuhan decides to eat a live pangolin or something, and suddenly you’ve got a new flu spreading globally.
The globalist kikes were caught off guard. They can prepare for everything, but random events - you can’t predict randomness. For them, the pandemic was initially a disaster. Their System relies on pacifying the population with bread and circus. Yet the pandemic took all of that away - theaters, restaurants, public venues closed, people were forced into their homes. Randomness (a vile chink eating bushmeat) threw a stick into the greased wheels of their plan.
But, once randomness happens, you can exploit it.
The pandemic gave them a perfect way to measure how pacified the citizens are, and to increase their control of the population. Starting off with obviously tyrannical, retarded “public health measures”, and finishing off with a faulty clot shot whose effects are limited at best. The population was presented with this, and obviously contradicting information, and then the kikes just waited. What percentage of the goyim cattle wore the mask all the time? What percentage of the goyim cattle taok the vax right away? What percentage caved under a little more pressure? At what point did the goyim begin protesting or even rioting? Alongside that, they normalized various otherwise untenable ways to control the population, under the guise of - again - “public health measures”.
From what could’ve easily been a total disaster, into something vaguely beneficial for them. Sure, the pandemic irreversibly accelerated the decline of ZOG - they were forced to take the mask off a little and expose their tyrannical aspirations - but they had the data that they wanted. What % of the population would rebel, what % would accept it immediately, what % would buckle under pressure.
Second, I will discuss a young man named Otoya Yamaguchi.
In the late 50s, the Japanese Socialist Party was growing, with a man named Inejirō Asanuma at its helm. Asanuma was a charismatic figure, who managed to hold together all the different factions of the party together. He was also staunchly pro-China, which put him at the odds with Japanese nationalists. At the same time, the party was quickly rising in popularity.
Otoya Yamaguchi was a 17-year old boy. An ultranationalist, he joined the Greater Japan Patriotic Party, lead by a man named Bin Akao, and participated in the party’s numerous
  
 counter-protests against leftists, being arrested 10 times in the process. However, Yamaguchi became disillusioned with the party, seeing that its leadership was not radical enough. In 1960, he resigned, looking to take more “decisive” action.
And take decisive action he did. On October 12 of the same year, Yamaguchi was in the crowd of spectators watching Asanuma’s speech during a debate between political candidates. As Asanuma spoke on stage, Yamaguchi, who had concealed a short sword on himself before entering, rushed onto the stage and stabbed the sword into Asanuma’s side, puncturing his aorta and killing him within minutes.
Without charismatic Asanuma leading it, the Japanese Socialist Party declined as internal infighting took over. From the 1960s onwards, the number of seats held by the party only declined, until it finally disbanded in 1996. Yamaguchi ended his life in his jail cell shortly afterwards.
The actions of one man with willpower and a way, changed the course of history for Japan.
Now, what does all of this mean for us?
Become an opportunist. When an opportunity presents itself, where you and your comrades may change something - seize it!
Yamaguchi saw an opportunity to strike at an enemy of the Japanese people, and he took it. He reached out and grasped the opportunity; he grasped the handle of his sword and thrust it deep into the belly of the beast, extinguishing it in one swift blow that altered history for his people.
The globalists were taken aback by a chink fever, but they turned that into an opportunity to gauge how people would react under pressure, and increase their control. They saw an opportunity and they grabbed it, achieving their goals, albeit at the expense of others.
For example, in 2020, the US experienced some of the most violent and chaotic uprisings in its history. Entire cities became lawless zones where niggers roamed the streets freely, looting and pillaging and burning. Sounds like a perfect opportunity!
The next time you’re visiting Portland or Seattle with your buddies, and the riots are ongoing, and the Antifa scum have declared a new “occupied zone” protest, what’s stopping you from storming in and taking it over? Whether you’re just an autonomous cell with a few people, or a proper militia that trains and prepares - what’s stopping you? Get in there, neutralize the hapless Antifa queers, find entrenched positions, and hold off the pigs. Call on your fellow people - White nationalists, separatists, National Socialists - in the city, the country and the entire White world to join you and act locally, or come to Portland to help you. After enough pigs die, they will stop pouring in and try to negotiate. That gives you time.
  
 The next time chimpanzees escape their enclosures in Minneapolis and begin rampaging around town, what’s stopping you and your buddies from clearing out a gun store, or better yet convincing a gun store owner from joining you, and occupying key government buildings? What’s stopping you from reinstating “law and order”, but then refusing to give it back to the pigs and anti-White politicians?
The next time the power grid in Texas gives out, either due to weather-induced failure, well- placed .22 LR subsonic rounds fired into transformers using silenced firearms, or even a combination of both, what’s stopping you and your buddies from visiting a few traitors and anti-White politicians, giving them some booster shots with the same silenced firearms, and then speeding off into the darkness?
The next time a natural disaster strikes your area, what’s stopping you and your buddies from joining the relief efforts, yet withholding all relief from shitskins? What’s stopping you from distributing government-issued water bottles, roofing tarps, blankets and towels to the White people struck by the calamity, but mysteriously marking off all nigger-inhabited addresses as already supplied even when they get nothing? What’s stopping you from using this to drive out a few more shitskins from your area of operations, forcing them to relocate? What’s stopping you from using this to establish more power within your community?
If you succeed at taking over Portland, well congratulations, you have just started an insurrection against ZOG. And if you fail, you can always escape with your buddies and find a new area of operations, to do it all over again. Or if you fail at that, in your last moments, you will know that you have inspired another group of people to do the exact same thing later, in a different location.
The only thing stopping you, is yourself.

 Political assassination
You think political asssassination is dumb? That the enemies are just replaceable?
With every prominent anti-White who dies, it isn’t his post that dies. They can be replaced in the position that they occupied. What can’t be replaced, is their experience. Their connections that they built. The stuff that they don’t write down, but that they hold in their minds. Their skills.
It’s no surprise that every revolutionary movement in history has used assassination. It works.
And it isn’t hard, too.
All our enemies have names.
All our enemies have addresses.
All our enemies have vehicles they use to travel.
All our enemies have families. Children they raise. Parents they cherish. Wives and husbands they love.
All our enemies have daily routines they follow.
All our enemies have points where they are vulnerable. Fumbling for their set of keys. Unlocking their car in the parking lot. Waiting to be let into buildings. Watching their children on the playground, focusing not on their surroundings. Ordering food at the restaurant. Speaking to the cashier at the grocery store.
They are human just like us. They are not machines. No amount of security measures can account for every inevitability. An inevitability just waiting to be exploited.
And if, somehow, the enemy itself is perfectly alert and covered by security, with no loopholes?
Their families are not.
Think that the anti-White’s children are surrounded by armed guards for every single moment they spend at school?
Think that the anti-White’s wife is protected by bodyguards for every moment in time she spends at the massage parlor, or the grocery store, or the restaurant?
Think that the anti-White’s elderly parents are defended by gun-toting security guards every time the nurse wipes their ass at the nursing home?
   
 They can’t defend everything. They know it. They rely on you not knowing this fact.
Now you know.

 Political assassination - shitpost
Here is Alan Berg, a smug anti-White kike, spewing his drivel on the radio waves. I’m sure he thought that he was safe, that no one would dare to touch him. Why would he be scared? Whites are a conquered people, demoralized and unable to resist, right? Or so he thought!
Well, he was wrong. Lucky for him, a group of men and women decided that Mr. Berg had a severe case of dysphoria, and the he would feel better if he transitioned to a kitchen sieve. On June 18, 1984, he did just that.
It only took 12 bullets! -
Here is Darya Dugina, daughter of the anti-White rodent Aleksandr Dugin. She shared many of his views on White people and his ideology of Eurasianism. She was essentially groomed into being his heir, once the old man himself eventually passed.
    
 On August 20, 2022, she underwent her own transition. Images of her post-transition are not available, but our skilled graphic designers have produced a series of illustrations, showing what a post-transition Darya Dugina may have looked like.
Looking good, Darya! A truly explosive transformation on her end. Don’t burn yourself out though!
-
  
 You are occupied
I would write something of my own here, but I think the original 4chan post does it better than I ever could, so I will just place the entire quote here.
“Nothing about the world we live in will ever make sense to you unless you understand you live under an occupation and are thus subject to the rules of the occupiers. If you do not start from there, you will search for multiple explanations and rationalizations that will lead you to ineffective ends. You are not an active participant in politics and public debate, you are it’s problem. Public debate is debating why you’re the problem, politics is about dealing with that problem. The opposition in debate simply offers an alternative path to your destruction, the end goal is never resisted. We cannot seek to influence the debate or enter politics we can only hope to smash it.
Your humiliation is the enemies goal. To take a hit and fight on is honorable to take a beating every day is just sad. Humiliation robs you of your humanity, your will, your reason to fight on. Humiliation takes everything from you and debases it in front of all, it robs you of being worthy of empathy. It has been used by every occupier in history, it is our natural primal understanding of defeat. The Ottoman practice of köçek was an ultimate example, similar to the concept of “Drag Kids” in modern America. Köçeks were a combination of dancers, clowns and prostitutes, they were young non-Muslim boys taken from their parents and trained to be willful sexual objects and entertainers for the Turks
The goal was to have the occupied think “If we allow that to be done to our boys what else can they do?” The answer is anything. It is full spectrum domination of the conquereds mind.
Your enemy doesnt want gay pride parades in your street, drag queens in your adverts, your son transgender, your parents dead from opioids, your daughter race mixing, your meat replaced with bugs all while your media laughs at you because they think it’s for anyones benefit. They want it because they know you dont want it but cant stop them, they want to humiliate you. There isnt any other reason.”
~Anon, 18/4/20 (>>253953209)
 
 Take the reality pill
Instead of blackpills and whitepills, focus on reality.
The blackpill is thinking that all is doomed; that ZOG has already won; that resistance is futile and we should all just blow our brains out on the spot.
The whitepill is thinking that victory will be easy; that ZOG will collapse on its own, or collapse after a single well-executed strike on the power grid.
The reality pill is hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst; it is realizing that while ZOG is by no means invulnerable, it is also a huge behemoth with a lot of momentum behind it. Even a crippling strike that disables the entire power grid, will not destroy it. It will send it into overdrive, a state of emergency, as millions of people die - but it will not destroy it.
The blackpill is thinking that our Race will never see victory. The whitepill is thinking that we personally, will see victory.
The reality pill is realizing that our children will see victory. We, the people alive at this moment, will not live to see the fruits of our work. But we can set the stage for our children, if we just stand up and FIGHT. If we stop being lazy, inactive, demoralized.
The reality pill is realizing that the battle will be long and hard, but can be won.
  
 On self defense
So there is a dead nigger lying down at your feet. It attacked you, and you defended yourself.
You may think that you will win the inevitable court case, huh?
After all, the chimp attacked you first. It tried to take your gun. Your life was under threat, and so you neutralized that threat.
Open and shut case, right?
I’m sure the McMichaels thought the same.
You will be dragged through the courts. The media and its legions of activists will be stacked against you. They will drag your name through the mud. Lawyers will squeeze every last penny out of you. There is a good chance you will be imprisoned for the rest of your life, for the crime of putting down a rabid negro who tried to attack you.
And if you somehow survive. If you somehow emerge from this ordeal with your pockets lighter but a free man, you’re still the man who gunned down a nigger. Your name, forever tarnished. Employment choices limited, partner choices limited, ability to enjoy life limited - maybe ruined for good, depending on where you live.
Simply because you defended your life.
So if you find yourself in such a situation, with a dead nigger lying down at your feet, a crowd of its compatriots gathering around and pulling out their phones to take pictures or videos...
Why not add a few more niggers to the score?
 
 On religion
I do not care about religion, with some exceptions.
As long as a White man is willing to fight for his Race, it doesn’t matter whether he is a Christian, an Atheist, a Nordic or Celtic or Slavic or Greek Pagan, an Agnostic, whatever. What matters is his Race.
What matters is that when you are in a trench with him, fighting off ZOG forces, you can rely on him even if you’re Pagan and he’s Christian. That if he’s a Christian, you can trust him on a mission to kill that particular anti-White pulpit preacher.
The only obvious exception to this are kikes, who deserve absolutely no mercy, and Muslims, where an exception can be made for White Albanians.
A good litmus test for anyone is “Would you rather have a country of non-White *your religion here*, or a country of White *not your religion here*?”
“Would you rather have a country of non-White Christians, or a country of White Pagans?” “Would you rather have a country of non-White Atheists, or a country of White Christians?”
“Would you rather have a country of non-White Pagans, or a country of White Atheists?” Each of these can be reversed as well.
Anyone who answers the second option is on your side. They can look past religious issues, and focus on the important issue: Race.
Race First. Always.
  
 Destroy the pressure release valves
One of the reasons people never resist, is because they don’t have to. They can vent their frustrations elsewhere. They are not forced to fight for what they believe, when they can talk about it.
This is intentional. ZOG doesn’t want the people to resist, so even at the cost of some loss of control caused by people expressing their true feelings, ZOG keeps a system of pressure release valves up and running, to channel discontent into unproductive, fruitless endeavors. Who would pick up a gun and shoot traitor politicians, when they can go call into a podcast and rant about said politician over the phone? Who would plant a bomb at the nigger- infested bus station, when they can go on a forum and write out a long diatribe about their hatred of niggers? Who would start their own militia to cleanse their area of undesirables, when they can just vote for a politician and hope for the best?
Not many people. Almost no one.
We must strive to close the pressure release valves. No more “freedom of speech”. No
more voting. No more fake political parties. No more podcasts, radio shows.
The least that can be done, is forcing people to vent in real life. To share their disdain with the modern world with their friends and acquainstances. Make them express their frustration in the physical world.
Why?
Because that increases the chance of those frustrated White men finding out that now, they have a real-life companion who agrees with them. A friend who secretly shared their views, but was not just a faceless individual behind a screen and an anime avatar.
These two can now connect more closely, if they so wish.
They can even arrive at the conclusion that there is no political solution, and be in a position
to do something about it. You’ve got a proto-cell.
The more the pressure release valves close, the more people will have to confront the reality of their situation, and plan their next actions in a more effective way.
 
 To the jews
Your crimes against our people, our Race, are endless. You have been working against us for centuries, undermining our power and slowly working to destroy us, to weaken us in our own homelands. You did not always succeed, but you tanked the losses and continued unabated. You are our Race’s mortal enemy.
You subvert our nations, placing your controlled traitors in government positions so that they do your bidding. For this, you must die.
You use nepotism to give yourselves an advantage in our institutions and hierarchies of everything that matters, to ensure that you can use every possible method to destroy and subjugate our Race. For this, you must die.
You organize the mass importation of enemy races into our nations, to wreak havoc on our communities. For this, you must die.
You organize and spearhead everything related to “LGBT rights”, pushing degenerate propaganda onto our Race. For this, you must die.
You create and peddle pornography, destroying the minds of our People. For this, you must die.
You control, spearhead and finance every “civil rights movement” there is, further increasing the power of racial enemies and degenerates at the expense of Whites. For this, you must die.
You push all of this garbage into the school system, to destroy the minds of our youth before they have a chance to resist. For this, you must die.
You control the mass media industry, to skew the news in your favor and spread more bile against our Race. For this, you must die.
You control the entertainment industry, using its vast reach to push even more degeneracy and corruption into the minds of our people. For this, you must die.
You control the social media networks, using their massive influence across the globe to spread the seeds of globohomo in countries as distant as USA, Ukraine, Iceland and Italy. To corrupt our youth not just in your power centers, but everywhere. For this, you must die.
You control the banking industry, enslaving our people financially and heavily influencing world affairs in your favor. For this, you must die.
You control the pharmaceutical industry, injecting us and prescribing us with poison that harms our health. For this, you must die.
 
 You spread the degenerate ideological mind poisons of communism, marxism, and progressivism among others, to brainwash our people to hate their own Race. For this, you must die.
And you are very damn proud of it all.
For all of this, plus many more that I haven’t mentioned, you MUST die.
Every single jew, from the youngest newborn to the most ancient rabbi, is collectively guilty of the organized destruction of the White race, and must be exterminated as swiftly and efficiently as possible.
There can be no remorse. There can be no forgiveness.
Not for the jews. We made that mistake in the past, and it cost us dearly. Not anymore.
This time, you will get a real Holocaust, one that succeeds at destroying you vermin once and for all.
 
 Two pitfalls
“The post Qanon conservative is just a NPC... They are by design impossible to reason with and can only think in terms of globohomo and trad, of cringe and based, of left and right. Anything the left supports they must oppose. There's no point in arguing with them because the mechanisms for rational thinking are no longer there.”
~Anon, 24/5/22 (>>379227767)
There are two main pitfalls that catch numerous people on their path to realization. They are simple mistakes to make, but can have a huge impact on the future effectivity of our resistance.
The first one is cowardice. Personal cowardice is the root of a lot of the issues facing us - paranoia over glowniggers as opposed to healthy awareness, the belief in deus ex machina saviors who will swoop in at the last second (Russia, China, God...), the obsession with peaceful solutions and voting. They all originate from a coward’s mind, from the mind of someone who does not want to fight for his existence, for his people, and thus has to justify his inaction. It’s all just after-the-fact cope.
Why would you fight for your people, when very soon (in 2 weeks roughly!) the Hand of God will descend from the skies and squash billions of sinners, degenerates, White pagans and White atheists, before taking all the loyal White, black, brown and yellow Christians to heaven?
Why would you fight for your people, when very soon (in 2 weeks roughly!) the Russian army, staffed by central asians and lead by Putin himself, with his loyal Jewish oligarchs at his side, will ride into D.C. on tanks and establish a based government, where denying the Holocaust is illegal and pride month celebrations are confined to the army barracks?
Why would you fight for your people, when very soon (in 2 weeks roughly!) the migthy supposedly crypto-NatSoc chinese dragon will swoop in and crush the American Imperialist bug with its chinesium tank treads, before debt trapping everyone?
“Why would you fight for your people, when someone else will do it?”
The second one is contrarianism. It’s the same as the classic “owning the libtards compilation” videos, just blown up into an entire political ideology. It is the abandonment of any critical thinking or common sense, and its replacement by a machine that takes a tranny’s Twitter feed as an input, and produces a copy with every thought reversed as its output. It is literally becoming an NPC, just on the other side of the spectrum.
This is why so many Western alt-right individuals support Russia, or China, or even bolshevism. They don’t take a look at Russia’s official policies, its positions on matters like racism, antifascism and anti-semitism, the state of the Russian far-right scene or how the government treats them. All they need, is that some tranny on Twitter dislikes Russia. And suddenly, an antifascist multiracial empire becomes a White paradise. They don’t care about
 
  what bolshevik commie policies bring with them. They just see that western libshits are against bolshevism because it is authoritarian. Suddenly, you get nazbol rodents worming their way in, proclaiming how Stalin was actually based and redpilled.
These are the two main pitfalls that affect us. Once those have been filled up with dirt and removed, we will be far more efficient at what has to be done - resisting ZOG.

 The “multipolar world” already exists
You will often hear duginist subhumans talk about the need to create a “multipolar” order, or in other words, weakening the hegenomy of the United States.
What they don’t realize, is that a multipolar world already exists, just not in the way that they imagine it.
The two poles are Western ZOG and Eastern ZOG, anchored in the west by the United States and in the east by Russia. These are two competing yet complementary systems, controlled by the same (((people))), who disagree on the details but agree on the ultimate conclusion of their plans.
If you look at the two main countries - USA and Russia - you will notice that they are remarkably similar, which is why they are the two main “vessels”, hollowed out by kikes to be used as their bases of operations for their plans.
• Large and powerful - Both Russia and USA are geographically vast countries, which hold hueg amounts of natural resources and wealth. They have relatively well-developed militaries, and are capable of projecting power to their various satellites, which they then destroy.
• Ethnically diverse and multicultural - Both Russia and USA have significant non-White populations or niggers, shitskins, asians and various other groups. These act as the aforementioned “strikebreakers”, diluting any power that local White people may have.
• Large jewish population - The United States has more kikes than Israel itself, with these kikes permeating every aspect of the American government and culture. In Russia, the government with Putin at its helm is influenced and supported by numerous rich oligarchs, most of whom are kikes.
• Docile population - Both Russia and USA have a population that is mostly docile (for now!) In the United States, this is caused by the dozens of pressure release valves implemented specifically for the purpose of keeping the population pacified, as well as incessant brainwashing since the end of WW2. In Russia, the same effect has been achieved by centuries of dysgenics, with anyone willing to resist the government killed off by successive autocratic regimes. Russia is, funnily enough, ahead of this compared to the United States, and is a model for the Western ZOG on how docile a population can actually get.
These circumstances give the kikes two reliable centers of power - large and powerful nations, hollowed out and used as vessels to implement their plans in their respective spheres of influence, with populations that are, in the jews’ plans, unlikely to resist.
And thus, these countries make the perfect golems for kikes. Their modern founding myths are centered around the crushing of Europeans. America relishes in its role at defeating Europe in 1945, and now dutifully does its job as a global policeman, defending their masters in Israel at any cost and subjugating anyone who wants to resist ZOG even a little. Meanwhile, Russia is Antifa: The Country. Their entire national mythos is based on the
     
 destruction of Europe in WW2, “denazification”, defeating the “evil” Nazis and Fascists, larping as bolsheviks and imperials and mixing all of that together into a schizophrenic pseudo-ideology.
Now these two sides don’t agree with eachother on everything. There are two potential outcomes for what they want:
• Western ZOG - coffee-colored, gay goyim cattle slaving away at the global capitalist plantation, for the benefit of rich kikes in the government, who ultimately report to the even richer kike global banking cartels.
• Eastern ZOG - coffee-colored, straight goyim cattle slaving away at the global communist/neobolshevik plantation, for the benefit of rich kikes in the government and the rich kike oligarchs, who ultimately report to the even richer kike global banking cartels.
Here’s your “choice”, duginist faggot! Here’s the “multipolar world” that you dreamed of! Is this how you imagined it?
Go ahead, eat the western or eastern shit. Enjoying the taste?
Don’t you think it’s time to stop eating shit for once?
Reject the “multipolar order”, embrace European supremacy.

 The Holocaust
It never happened.
But if it did, they deserved it. Shame that the job wasn’t finished though. Now it’s up to us to fix that little error.
6 million was just the prologue, 20.7 million next time!
   
 Non-European cultures
I have a level of respect for the East Asians, especially the Japanese and to an extent the chinks. They may not be White, but these cultures are some of the only ones, alongside European ones, to have produced great things. Quality artwork - from old paintings, drawings and music; to newer movies, music, cartoon series and much more. They have sports (I have even been indulging in one, karate, for over 10 years!), architecture, military history, all of it. Numerous inventions have come from the region - paper and gunpowder among the most important ones. The Japanese honorably fought against Western ZOG in the Pacific War. They have a rich history that is very different from the subhuman garbage of most other non-Whites. No, I don’t consider some abo hominid in Australia finding a hollow log and blowing air into it “music”, or culture.
And no, I don’t even watch anime, and probably never will at this stage.
Now, you may say that the East Asians have an insect-like mentality - hordes of workoholic drones, working until they pass out or end their lives due to the misery of it all. This is true, and this is one of the weaknesses of the East Asians. Yet now, I will use this opportunity to illustrate the main weakness of Europeans, because every racial group has its weakness.
Niggers and general shitskins are inhibited by their dismally low intelligence.
Jews are cunning and excellent planners and nepotists, but their hubris always betrays them in the end - the little hooknosed man behind the curtain can not just stay there, hidden from public view while pulling the strings; in his hubris, he always steps out into the spotlight and exposes himself to the goyim.
For Europeans, our main weakness is sympathy. We are way too sympathetic to our enemies. We always try to find the best in everyone, even when they make it clear that they hate us and want us gone. We always try to make everyone feel good and comfortable, no matter how great of an enemy they are. And every single time, our enemies - especially the kikes - exploit this hospitality against us.
This is what gets us every time: we are too merciful.
We must stop being merciful to those who want us gone. —
Now, don’t let what I said fool you. I may have a level of respect for the Japanese, but that doesn’t change the fundamentals - Asians are not White. Asians do not belong in our countries - they have their own ones. And race mixing with them is just as bad as race mixing with a nigger or a kike - all you’re producing is shit, in all 3 instances. Just don’t do it, it’s that simple.
 
 To the trannies
You will never be a real woman. You have no womb, you have no ovaries, you have no eggs. You are a homosexual man twisted by drugs and surgery into a crude mockery of nature’s perfection.
All the “validation” you get is two-faced and half-hearted. Behind your back people mock you. Your parents are disgusted and ashamed of you, your “friends” laugh at your ghoulish appearance behind closed doors.
Men are utterly repulsed by you. Thousands of years of evolution have allowed men to sniff out frauds with incredible efficiency. Even trannies who “pass” look uncanny and unnatural to a man. Your bone structure is a dead giveaway. And even if you manage to get a drunk guy home with you, he’ll turn tail and bolt the second he gets a whiff of your diseased, infected axe wound.
You will never be happy. You wrench out a fake smile every single morning and tell yourself it’s going to be ok, but deep inside you feel the depression creeping up like a weed, ready to crush you under the unbearable weight.
Eventually it’ll be too much to bear - you’ll buy a rope, tie a noose, put it around your neck, and plunge into the cold abyss. Your parents will find you, heartbroken but relieved that they no longer have to live with the unbearable shame and disappointment. They’ll bury you with a headstone marked with your birth name, and every passerby for the rest of eternity will know a man is buried there. Your body will decay and go back to the dust, and all that will remain of your legacy is a skeleton that is unmistakably male.
This is your fate. This is what you chose. There is no turning back.
 
 America is dead
The United States is dead - killed by a combination of jewish subversion, non-White infestation and White inaction. It’s dead, and all that remains are memories of what may have been a better time. It is now a vessel used by kikes to subjugate other White nations - the mothership of Western ZOG.
To even try to salvage and restore the United States to its former state, is equivalent to trying to dress up a corpse until it becomes alive again. No matter how much makeup you apply, no matter how meticulously and lovingly you comb and style its hair, no matter how expensive the clothes you dress it in are, no matter how much you squint your eyes, the stench of death and rot will not go away, and its skin will never be warm like a living person’s skin. It will remain a corpse forever, just like America will.
America is a house, but a house where the wood and timber has rotten, become infested and colonized by termites and other critters. You can give the whole thing a paint job, replace the windows, doors and roof tiles, and plop down a nice velvet carpet in the living room, but the underlying structure will remain rotten and fragile, until the whole house of cards falls on your fucking head and kills you.
What you must do, is get out of the house, escape it while you still can. Then, tear it down, plank by plank, using whatever tools you have at your disposal - the longer you wait, the more years you procrastinate this, the weaker you become, and when the house eventually collapses under its own weight decades later, you may find that you’re too weak to build anything new on the old foundation. Then, once you have torn down the frail structure, you can build something new and better atop the same foundation. You can take inspiration from the old house if you want, but you can improve it. And you’ve got no more termites!
America is dead, and the sooner it goes, the better off we will be.
 
 Turn demoralization into anger
ZOG wants you to be demoralized.
It wants you to be blackpilled.
It wants you to believe that all hope is lost, that resistance is futile.
It wants you to think that its internal security services are impregnable, impossible to overcome.
It wants you to believe that every single person who takes action, is just controlled opposition or a false flag. It wants you isolated, believing that you are alone and without any hope of salvation.
ZOG wants you to give up.
Do not give up.
Taking the blackpill is an enticing thought. It would just feel so good to give up, right? But I know something better.
A blackpill is not far from an angerpill.
You see something blackpilling. Race traitors out in the street. Children ruining their lives
with hormones and sex reassignment surgery. Whatever.
Remember it. Think about who is responsible for it. Who causes the degeneracy? Who causes the destruction of your Race? Who causes it, who benefits from it, who allows it, who protects those that allow it?
Think, and then be angry. Be angry at them. Keep that anger within you, contained. Let it coalesce into something bigger, intensify its effect. Feed it regularly. Let the anger build up. Let the rage against the System build up. Let the hate against the System build up. Turn the blackpill, into a hatepill.
Then, transform that hate into action. Release it, the hatred and the rage. Into action against those causing the rage and the hatred, until it is no longer there. Let it sustain you on your missions.
The blackpill harms you. The hatepill harms those who harm you.
  
 Push the Overton window
You must push the Overton window in our favor.
That is not done with milquetoast hot takes about “critical race theory”, “trannies”, “the southern border” or whatever. Those takes are now all within the generic conservative/ republican repertoire. It’s entry-level redpills.
Push the Overton window towards HATE.
Normalize jokes about pipe bombing or assassinating political enemies.
Normalize the use of violence as a political tool.
Normalize rejecting the electoral system, in favor of other alternatives.
Normalize doxing political enemies.
Normalize the dehumanization of political enemies. Normalize calling one’s political or racial enemies subhuman, vermin, garbage.
Normalize racial tensions. Normalize discussing the jewish role in chattel slavery. Normalize discussing the predatory jew landlords in New Yawk, preying upon poor and innocent People of Color. Normalize discussing the jews opening the gates of Toledo to the moor invaders. Normalize discussing the niggers looting and burning korean businesses in LA.
Normalize racial hatred.
Normalize discussing our hidden past. Normalize discussing the heroism of individual soldiers or units. Normalize admiring their achievements, respecting their sacrifice in their fight against ZOG.
It isn’t the generic republican or conservative of democrat who pushes the Overton window. They are firmly planted within it, and do not want it to move, lest they become obsolete as the views of the public change. It is the extremists on both sides, who push and pull on the edges, toying with the window and trying to slowly edge it towards their real views.
Be the extremist who pushes the Overton window in our favor.
  
 The sword reigns supreme
Contrary to popular belief, the pen is not mightier than the sword. The pen can only write its ideas, thoughts and beliefs down if protected by an array of swords. It needs the protective swords, so that it can write its insults, bellitle its opponents and spew the thought sanctioned by the hand gripping it, without the fear of retribution. Once the protective swords are stripped away, the pen is easy prey for a sword.
Similarly, the microphone is not mightier than the sword. The microphone, like the pen, needs a phalanx of swords, protecting it from anyone who may challenge it. It also needs a good set of speakers, because skilled oration will not amplify its voice. The microphone needs all of these, so that it can shout insults and falsehoods and toxic rhetoric at the sword, so that it can rally others against the sword - but it can only do that with the knowledge that the sword will not be able to retaliate. Without the protection of its own swords, a microphone is nothing, because no amount of rhetoric and arguing will stop a determined sword from slicing through the microphone. Once the protective swords are stripped away, the microphone is easy prey for a sword.
The codex of laws is not mightier than the sword. Just like all the others, it relies on other swords, not just to protect it, but also to enforce its will. It relies on the swords to arrest others on trumped up charges, or on unjust charges, conjured up because some nose somewhere declared them the law of the land. But without the protective swords that keep it safe, a law codex is just like all the others, and is not immune to a sharpened blade. Once the protective swords are stripped away, the law codex is easy prey for a sword.
Our enemies control us. They occupy us. They also have a lot of swords, which they use not just to keep our own ones down, but also to cut down any attempts at wielding the pen, the microphone, the law codex.
Maybe it’s time for us to wield our swords again. After all, the sword rules the battle.
“All the power and all the money in the world can’t stop a bullet, when it is fired by a heart that is proof against all your temptation and all your money and all your threats. That’s why so-called terrorism drives you people around the twist. Terrorism is the weapon of the weak against the strong, and it is a highly effective one, possibly the only one that can get through to you any more, the only weapon that can pierce your wall of power and privilege. You can’t bribe a bullet, you can’t corrupt it, you can’t vote it away, you can’t brainwash it into thinking it’s a snowflake, you can’t have a corrupt judge in a black robe bang his gavel and make it go away, you can’t sue it, you can’t jail it, you can’t hire some dumb-ass local deputy to beat or murder it, and once it’s fired it’s going right into the target. You and your kind have to keep all the hearts and minds of humanity in darkness and bondage, because
it only takes one free man to pull a trigger and bring all your schemes and your constructions to nothing.”
~H. A. Covington, A Mighty Fortress, p. 287-288
    
 Death to inaction
This one is a favorite of all Western “conservatives” and “libertarians” - the idea that everything is going fine, if you just retreat to the woods to live alone like a hermit. The idea that if you just keep running away, nothing else is your problem.
The mindset of “we just want to be left alone, we can keep running forever!” is a cancer, a cancer that is killing White people.
It’s the reason American and now European cities were so easily taken over by hordes of shitskins and jewish rodents - the Whites just ran away to the suburbs to be left alone. It’s now the reason why American and European countries are being so easily taken over.
It’s the reason American and now European culture is being replaced by globalized nigger worship and consumerism - the Whites just thought “As long as it doesn’t affect me, it doesn’t matter. It won’t happen in MY little town in rural Idaho!”
“It won’t happen here,” they all foolishly believed. But it did happen. And it will happen again.
The issue with this form of thinking, is that our enemies will never stop. The kikes will not stop until they have total control. In the US, the rot began in the cities, that much is true. But now it has spread nationwide, to every rural town, small hamlet, isolated settlement. And the same will happen everywhere - in Western Europe, in Australia, in New Zealand, even here in “based” Central and Eastern Europe. The Internet has infinite reach, no matter how far away you run.
It doesn’t matter if you live in a rural town; you will never be far enough for your children to not get groomed by faggots on TikTok or Discord.
It doesn’t matter if you do not allow your children on the Internet; you will never be far enough for your children to not get indoctrinated in public school, or introduced to degenerates via their friends who are allowed to use the Internet.
It doesn’t matter if you homeschool your children; you will never be far enough for them to not get indoctrinated via jewish television programs and shows.
And if you somehow do run far away enough from their sick and degenerate culture, then the kikes have already won. You are atomized, isolated from the world, in middle of the woods with you and your family, easy prey in case the feds decide to swoop in. Easy prey when some vindictious kike calls CPS on you because you teach your children the truth about the world and about our history. Easy prey when some kike judge decides to take down another “dangerous White supremacist”. Remember Randy Weaver?
 You will not be able to run away forever.

 Your inaction will not save you.
And if you can, your children and grandchildren will be the ones who can’t. You’re prolonging the inevitable.
Your inaction will not save your children.
“There is nowhere left to run, turn around, face your enemy, make your stand. There is not a single place left where the tendrils of replacement migration have not touched. There is no single place in the West that is even close to reaching replacement level birthrates, let alone birthrates that indicate a level of vitality and vigour.
There is no pleasant meadow in which you can lay down your weary body, rest your head and wait for it all to blow over.”
~Saint Tarrant, The Great Replacement, p. 45

 To the lonely, to the broken, to the depressed
This is for those reading, who may feel broken. Lost on this Earth, without a purpose.
You may feel depressed, your life full of sadness. Feeling like it is over before it even began, feeling like you have something missing. Missing something crucial, but without the knowledge of what it is. A piece of the puzzle lost. Incomplete.
You may feel lonely, your life devoid of human contact. No friends, no acquaintances, no children... no one to love. No one who loves you back. No one to talk with, to share your life’s problems but also to laugh with; no one to cuddle with in the bed; no one to experience life with; no one whose arms you can fall into after a long day at work, to suffocate in their love.
You may feel downtrodden, demoralized over the bleak future ahead of us. Despodent over the fate assigned to us by our occupiers. Believing that this is simply the way it ends, and there is no reason to continue.
Whatever the case is, you’ve certainly seen better days. You’re losing your internal battles, your internal struggles. You want to give up.
Believe me, I know the feeling. Years ago, I felt the same way. In retrospect, it was simply fabrications and exaggerations created by my mind, poisoned with self-diagnosing on the Internet. Yet at the time, it certainly felt real.
I felt like I would never make it anywhere. I felt like I would be forever alone, stuck on this planet forever. My life had no purpose.
I walked to the railway embankment, waiting for my ticket out of this world. My train to what I perceived as my freedom. The train never came, and I am glad it never did.
Humans have one biological purpose - to spread our genes. Our purpose is to procreate; to ensure that our genes continue to propagate forward. This is the simple biological purpose of humanity.
Yet ensuring that our genes propagate is not just a matter of procreation. It’s a matter of defending them, protecting them from hostile animals who want to prey on your people. The biological purpose of humanity extends not only to you personally, or your family. It extends to your tribe, your nation, your Race. This is why men march off into battle against invading armies, despite this jeopardizing their ability to procreate. Because deep down they
 
 know, that defending their nation allows its to propagate forward. Instinctively, they know, because that is our biological purpose.
And now you know as well.
You have some advantages. You were at the rock bottom. You stopped fearing death - it was your ultimate goal. You prepared for the day you would achieve this goal. Yet at the same time, you fought perhaps the greates adversary a man can face - his own mind - and won the battle. You’re here, changed but here.
You sound like the perfect guy for a certain job.
A squad of five guys like you, sent directly to Davos during a certain summit, armed with automatic rifles and as many grenades as you can hold.
You’d do a much better job than 5 men with families and large social circles. These men have something to lose. They can be threatened. When faced with the prospect of death, they have a reason to surrender instead of fighting another day.
You have nothing to lose. You have no reason to surrender You have everything to gain.
You can only lose your life. But you can gain a purpose - fighting in defense of your People, your Race, so that they may continue to propagate forward, to prosper, to thrive.
Isn’t that a beautiful thought?

 Preparations and planning
 Mental preparation
Before your operation(s), you must think about some issues that carrying out an operation will involve, and mentally prepare yourself for them.
• Once you conduct an operation, the life that you had before that point will be over. You
will not be able to return to the life you had before your operation, not 100%. From the day you conduct your first operation, you will be a fugitive, sought by the ZOG and all its institutions. You will not be able to return to your pre-attack work, school, relationships with your peers, your family, anything. They will hunt you with whatever tools they have at their disposal, and they will do so relentlessly. If you operate silently and covertly, you may be able to keep up your pre-attack life more easily, but even then, the stress of being the target of a manhunt will be upon your shoulders. And unless you operate as a cell, you will have to handle all of this alone. Can you handle the fact that your old life will be gone?
• You must consider whether you can handle attacking. Can you handle the fact that you will be killing someone else? Taking their life? Not everyone can do that without breaking down. Dehumanization of the enemy helps with this, but remember that a lot of our enemies are racial traitors as opposed to racial enemies.
• Should you attack, if you can be useful elsewhere? If you are in some sort of position of power or even just position of influence; if you have a family and children; if you have wealth, consider whether participating in passive resistance may be more benefitial. In the end, this is all up to you, but give it consideration. The best men for active resistance, are young men, without families, who have little to nothing to lose.
• Once you attack, almost everyone will hate you. Your family, your friends, your significant other, your acquaintances, they will all push you away like a piece of garbage. They will want nothing to do with you. You will be their greatest enemy. Obviously some exceptions exist, consider Nikita Tikhonov and his loyal girlfriend who helped him execute a traitor, but these cases are as rare as diamonds. Can you live with the knowledge that the people closest to you will now despise you? A good way to handle this, is to think about the good times; think about the memories already made. The future you may have with these people is lost, but you can think of the past. Alternatively, slowly push them away before the day of the operation, to make it easier on yourself mentally.
• You have to come to terms with the fact that your entire life may be over. As in, there is a large chance that you will die in the course of your operation or in the immediate aftermath. You may get killed by first responders, or by the ZOGbots participating in the manhunt for you. Alternatively, you may die in the process of the operation (eg. suicide bomb attacks). Or, you may die at your own hands during or after the operation, as a final act that concludes your attack. You must realize that once you attack, you can not go back, and you may lose your only chance at life on this Earth in the process. Some people deal with this in religious terms (Heaven, reincarnation, etc), others deal with this by devaluing their own life in their eyes until the thought of losing that life becomes acceptable, others try to live their lives as much as possible before the end, while some people simply accept it without any special measures.
        
 Targetry
Targetry is the study of how one should pick targets, to ensure both that the operation has the desired impact, and to ensure that the goals are achievable.
First, we must define the term “target”. A target is, for our purposes, a single individual, or a single location.
Next, we must define the terms “target value” and “target density”.
Target value - The overall impact that the death or destruction of the enemy (“target”) will have on the political, social and ethnic situation facing the White race.
Target density - The amount of enemies (“targets”) in a given location.
Now we will define what “low”, “medium” and “high” means for both target value, and target density. We will use examples for this.
Low value - The elimination of the target will, on its own, have a small impact on the course of the conflict, both locally and in the grand scale of things.
Examples: Racial aliens residing in high quantities within ethnic enclaves. Individual race traitors. Small-scale enemy activists. Fag bars.
Medium value - The elimination of the target will, on its own, have an impact on the local scale, affecting primarily the immediate area of operations.
Examples: Smaller communities of racial aliens located within otherwise White areas. Local politicians. Local journalists. All jews. Police officers. Soldiers. Medium-profile enemy activists. Deradicalizers and internal enemies.
High value - The elimination of the target will, on its own, have a significant impact on the grander scale of the conflict.
Examples: National or supranational politicians; their families. High-profile journalists. High-profile enemy activists. Technocrats. International bankers. High profile jews. ZOG bases of operations (government buildings, military bases, embassies...) High-profile religious leaders.
Low density - The targets within the operation area are either dispersed among non-targets, or located significant distances from each-other.
Examples: Average large city sidewalks; public transport. Individual targets. Residential areas. Individual police patrols.
Medium density - The targets within the operation area are located within a reasonable distance, with non-targets easily avoidable.
Examples: Heavily mixed neighborhoods. Establishments catering to certain but not specific audiences (hookah bars, ethnic restaurants located in an ethnic enclave). Religious buildings with ordinary attendance.
High density - The amount of targets within the operation area is essentially unlimited. The amount of non-targets is so negligible, that they can be considered “collateral damage”. Essentially “free-fire zones”.
      
 Examples: Ethnic enclave neighborhoods. Establishments catering to specific audiences (faggot bars). Specific festivals or events (pride parades, ethnic festivals, high-profile meetings). ZOG bases of operations. Religious buildings on important dates (Yom Kippur, Islamic Friday prayers...) Police stations. The city of Portland, Oregon.
From these values, a simple table can be constructed, combining both of them in a 3x3 grid. This table can now be used to evaluate targets by both their value, and their numbers. However, the catch is - starting from the top left corner, the closer to the bottom right corner one goes, the more stringent and difficult to defeat security measures are.
As a general rule of thumb, low value/low density should be limited to operations that seek to “test the waters”, or prove to oneself that they are capable of carrying out a more worthwhile operation later. A low value-low density operation on its own is not worth it. On the other hand, a high value/high density operation is one of the most tricky and difficult ones to carry out, usually requiring extensive knowledge and preparation, and in some instances assistance from other people. It is not a worthwhile effort to carry out an operation on such a target, if one is not absolutely confident in their ability to do so. In fact, trying and failing to carry out an operation on high value targets may, in a way, be counterproductive, as the targets will increase security measures in the aftermath of any failed attempt, making future operations harder.
The main thing that one must know, is how to select targets to ensure that the operation has its desired impact. First, the goal of the operation should be selected. Then, targets should be selected from a pool of potential ones collected ahead of time. Targets should make sense. Targets should all serve some purpose in the grand scheme of things. Intimidation of racial enemies? Removal of top ZOG figureheads? Destruction of communities of racial enemies? Killing of low-level activists to break their command structure? It’s up to you.
  
 Plan of action
My plan of action consists of several potential targets, which I divided into three categories.
• The primary target is the main objective, and the highest value one. The successful completion of this objective will have the greatest impact, according to my assessment.
• The secondary targets are to be acted on either after the primary objective has been successfully completed, or as backup in case the first objective, for whatever reason, fails. They are also high value targets, and the umprobable case of successful completion of all primary and secondary objectives will have a crippling effect on local ZOG, which can be exploited further.
• The tertiary objectives are of the lowest value, and exist primarily as a final failsafe, in case of failure at achieving both primary and secondary objectives. In case of total failure of my primary and secondary objectives, they ensure that at least a few soft, low or medium value targets will get what they deserve. This subset also includes some extra targets which are located far away, or targets for which I haven’t done much recon or research, and thus reaching and achieving them would be difficult.
In addition, in case a certain specific secondary objective fails, I have in mind a possible way to still cause damage to that particular part of the political system of ZOG, by potentially splitting apart a certain powerful political alliance. This may or may not work, depending on a lot of factors.
It is almost certain that not all of the targets will be achieved successfully. In a worst case scenario, none of them will, which is also a possibility. The list is lengthy, primarily to give me flexibility if I ever need it, offering a Plan B and Plan C and so on. In the end, it all depends on myself, and if my preparations were adequate.
I originally wanted to include a full list of targets, but I have decided against this. In case I survive the first day, I wouldn’t want my targets to know that they are on a list, and beef up security accordingly. You never know where snitches roam, who would rat it out as soon as possible. So, you will have to wait to see. Or maybe you never will, which would be unfortunate.
In case of my failure, I suggest looking into the reasons why I failed. There is always more to learn, and unforeseen circumstances can significantly change the course of events. Use the lessons you find to prepare yourself in a better way, to avoid my own errors.
 
 Recommended reading
• The Great Replacement by Brenton Tarrant - A required reading for anyone seeking to
fight an active resistance against ZOG. Saint Brenton Tarrant is the man who started the modern accelerationist resistance, with his act of propaganda of the deed that inspired numerous men across the world, from places as disparate as United States and Germany to Singapore, to stand up and strike out against their enemies. It inspired counter-attacks by the muslim enemy in France, Netherlands and even Sri Lanka. Tarrant is a symbol of our struggle, and his words continue to ring true even years later.
• The Turner Diaries by William Luther Pierce - A legendary book, detailing a war between White insurgents and the ZOG. While some of the content in the book is now outdated or obsolete since the book’s writing in the 1970s, a large amount of it remains relevant to this day, and it provides a unique look at what the White revolt could look like, once it gets going.
• The Brigade by Harold Armstead Covington - If The Turner Diaries take a look at a generalized view at a White uprising, The Brigade gets down to the nitty gritty, showing details of operations executed by a White insurgent cell in the Pacific Northwest. Required reading for those who operate with assistance, or otherwise work in a White revolutionary cell.
• Hunter by William Luther Pierce - If The Brigade covers the operation of White cells, Hunter takes a deep look at a lone wolf, who starts off by hunting racial traitor couples in parking lots, before going further and further. It further dabbles into issues of activism, movementarianism, federal informants, and other similar concepts. In a way, it is more relevant to us right now than even the Turner Diaries.
• Militant Accelerationism and The Hard Reset by Terrorgram Collective - If the other books give a theoretical and fictional base for our resistance, these two provide the practical means for it. They also go into a deeper dive into some issues, concepts and things that anyone who seeks to fight ZOG should know. These two may be harder to find than the other books I listed, but you an find them if you look in the right places.

 Special thanks
Fredrick Brennan - Now you may say “what the fuck, Fredrick is openly against 8chan!” But this is all part of his ruse. You see, despite his appearance, Fredrick is smarter than he looks. After all, while his bones may be about as strong as chalk, his brain remains fit and his critical thinking skills are top-notch. As many others did, after Brenton Tarrant’s heroic deed in Christchurch, Brennan began to agree with Tarrant’s views. Now, he spends the days railing against far-right fascist thought on gay podcasts, while during the night he roams the streets, hunting for subhumans and doing burnouts on kike corpses in his wheelchair. He even confided in me that the only reason he opposes QAnon, is because it is a derad faggot ploy to stop White men from establishing effective resistance. His only precondition to supporting any right-wing terrorist group, is that their goals have to include the construction of ramps and elevators at every set of stairs.
Bernd Herkelmann - Who knew that an employee of a German bicycle carrier company was also a hardcore National Socialist revolutionary? Mr. Herkelmann personally delivered to me cash and ammunition, after reconnecting with his German roots. You may not know this, but Tubus Carrier Systems refuses to hire niggers and turkroaches. Just food for thought!
Caleb J. Nichols - He may be a faggot from Norwich, NY, he may be the boyfriend of a tranny beaner, but I am glad that he gave me a ton of money so I could fight back against subhumans. Thank him personally on Twitter @lolcaleblol (ID: 1520499428431433728). 8/pol/ anons - Without you, I would have never made it this far. I would have never opened my eyes to the reality of this world. From the book threads to the Brenton Tarrant Memetic Warfare threads, I learned more than anywhere else. I will never forget browsing on August 4, and seeing the thread Saint Crusius made, then replying to it and having my post featured on Bellingcat...
Terrorgram Collective - You know who you are. Thank you for your incredible writing and art, for your political texts; for your practical guides. Building the future of the White revolution, one publication at a time.
Slovakbro - Your work was some of the first that I encountered after making the switch to Telegram, and remains some of the greatest on the platform. I am aware that you were captured by the Slovak ZOG, and that you will never read these words, but stay strong in the jaws of the System - their tyranny is temporary, but your unbreakable spirit is eternal. We’ll be seeing each other either in-person soon, or on the other side much later. Good luck with your own struggle.
My people - For being the greatest thing a man can fight for.
  
 Final remarks
Date: August 24, 2022
This is the final portion of this document; it is also the final section I write. I created the file on December 2, 2022. It lay dormant for months, until May of this year, when I picked it up and began seriously working on it again.
The rest of the document has been completed. Once I finish writing these words, I will export the document as a PDF file, and keep it on my laptop until I feel ready, when I will upload it on file-sharing websites. After that, I will arrange for this document to be disseminated remotely, so that even in case of early failure of my operation, these words get out to people.
Then, I will proceed with my operation, for as long as I can.
-
There are a lot of things which I want to say in this document, but I never will. Ideas, never expressed.
Plans, forever lost.
There are a lot of things which I wish to tell to people personally, but I never will.
Thoughts unspoken, vanishing forever once my consciousness fades. Secrets that will stay secret forever.
Confessions to people.
Declarations of love.
There are a lot of things which will never happen, which I will never get to experience, but which I wish could happen.
A life well lived.
Holding my newborn child.
The sight of my progeny, children and grandchildren and beyond, running around the playground.
A graceful, peaceful death, family at my side.
But I can’t wait anymore. I must do what has to be done. I must fight back. I must strike against ZOG. If I have to do it alone, then so be it. I am content with fighting alone.
I am doing this for all of you - family, friends, acquaintances, loved ones. But most of all, I am doing this for my People - my Race.
And if I am to be the last person to ever fight for my Race, then so be it. I am content with being the last one. But I know I’m not the last one.
After me, many more will come.
First individually, men of action just like those before me, who will walk the path alone.
  
 Then in the dozens, men who seek to smash ZOG, will walk the same path.
Then by the hundreds, individuals and cells and networks, will step onto the path and march into battle. Fighting and dying for the goal of the 14 Words.
Then thousands.
Never lose hope. The enemy wants you to be hopeless, demoralized, dejected, suicidal, withdrawn. Do not let them demoralize you. Because no matter how long it takes, if we just fight, we haven’t lost.
It took 800 years to free Iberia from its foreign occupants. Eight hundred.
If our current racial struggle takes 80 years, 800 years or 8,000 years, doesn’t matter. As long as we fight, there is always opportunity for victory. And it doesn’t matter how long it takes, because the preservation of our Race is a goal more worthy of sacrifice than any other goal.
Fighting for such a goal, nothing is off limits. It will be a tough battle. It will not be an easy road. We will suffer, we will face setbacks, we will lose millions of our best people in the struggle.
But once we win, it will be that much more satisfying to remember those lost, the untold millions whose stories will never be told, but who gave their lives so that the life of our Race may continue. Knowing that the goals the lost people fought for are no longer just dreams, or words on paper, but reality. Knowing that their ultimate sacrifice was not in vain.
My only regret, is that I will not live to fight alongside you on the battlefield. To fight against our enemies, together. Mourning our losses and celebrating our victories; preparing a future for our children; a future that we may never see, but which we fight for regardless, because our Race is more important than any individual. I will never be there when we share stories of our past and our future around a campfire or in a rented apartment, waiting for time to our time strike a high-value target.
I will never be there with you, when victory is achieved. But I will fight for it regardless. That’s all I have to say. Now, everything depends on my courage.
I bid you all farewell, and wish you good luck on your future endeavors.
When your time comes, make it count.
Make it count!
~JK
  